"作品德意志军团里忧郁的轻骑兵（托马斯·哈代经典悲情小说）短简介英俊的德国轻骑兵为何面带忧郁？英国少女菲利斯和德国士兵之间发生了怎样的故事？菲利斯死后埋在了两位德意志军团轻骑兵的墓冢边？她与他们之间的悲情往事也随之尘封在岁月中。长简介《德意志军团里忧郁的轻骑兵》选自哈代短篇小说集《威塞克斯故事集》，作者采用回忆的形式讲述了英国乡村女孩菲利斯和德意志军团里一位轻骑兵之间哀婉动人的爱情故事。菲利斯在自家的花园墙边与德国士兵马托伊斯相识相爱，两人决定一起私奔回马托伊斯的故乡。但在离开的前夕，菲利斯误信了悔婚的未婚夫的话，放弃了先前的计划，而马托伊斯也因逃跑被军队处决。一对有情人因为命运的捉弄而终于生死两隔，这反映了哈代作品中一贯出现的主题——人物和环境的冲突以及命运的偶然性和悲剧性。关键词德意志军团里忧郁的轻骑兵；托马斯·哈代；外研社编译组；短篇；爱情；私奔；悲剧作者（英）托马斯·哈代作者简介托马斯·哈代（1840—1928），英国诗人和小说家，一生共发表了近20部长篇小说，其中最著名的作品有《德伯家的苔丝》、《无名的裘德》、《还乡》和《卡斯特桥市长》，此外还有许多以“威塞克斯故事”为总名的中短篇小说以及长篇史诗剧《列王》。书评这不是悲观主义者的叹息，而是博爱主义者的呐喊和对爱的召唤。他的小说没有那种直射人心的光芒，他的小说中的光芒是向外投射的，照亮的是荒野和树木，而他笔下的人物越远离人群而变得孤苦伶仃时，他们的个性便越鲜明、越突出。——弗吉尼亚·伍尔夫"

"The Melancholy Hussar of the German Legion","德意志军团里忧郁的轻骑兵"
"by Thomas Hardy","作者：托马斯·哈代"
"Content","目录"
"Chapter I","第一章"
"Chapter  II","第二章"
"Chapter  III","第三章"
"Chapter  IV","第四章"
"Chapter  V","第五章"

"Chapter I","第一章"
"Here stretch the downs, high and breezy and green, absolutely unchanged since those eventful days.","这里绵延起伏的丘陵高高耸立，芳草萋萋，微风徐徐，在经历了世事无常的岁月之后也未曾改变。"
"A plough has never disturbed the turf, and the sod that was uppermost then is uppermost now.","没有人拿着耕犁来开垦过这片土地，原来露在上面的草皮依然在那里。"
"Here stood the camp; here are distinct traces of the banks thrown up for the horses of the cavalry, and spots where the midden-heaps lay are still to be observed.","这里曾经是军营。现在还留下了土垄的清晰痕迹，那是当年骑兵团搭建起来圈养马匹的，马粪堆积过的地方如今还依然清晰可辨。"
"At night, when I walk across the lonely place, it is impossible to avoid hearing, amid the scourings of the wind over the grass-bents and thistles, the old trumpet and bugle calls, the rattle of the halters; to help seeing rows of spectral tents and the impedimenta of the soldiery.","夜晚，当我踱步穿过这片孤寂的地方时，总能在风拂过野蓟草和小糠草的摩挲声中，听见昔日的喇叭声、军号声，还有给马匹套上缰绳的声音；眼前也不由得浮现出幻影一般成排的军营帐篷和军队辎重。"
"From within the canvases come guttural syllables of foreign tongues, and broken songs of the fatherland; for they were mainly regiments of the King’s German Legion that slept round the tent-poles hereabout at that time.","从帐篷中传来士兵们粗犷的外国口音，他们断断续续地唱着祖国的歌曲。因为当时睡在帐篷柱附近的军人，大多来自皇家德意志兵团。"
"It was nearly ninety years ago.","故事发生在大约90年前。"
"The British uniform of the period, with its immense epaulettes, queer cocked-hat, breeches, gaiters, ponderous cartridge-box, buckled shoes, and what not, would look strange and barbarous now.","那时的英国军装有宽大的肩纤毛带、古怪的三角帽、马裤和绑腿，还配有笨重的弹药筒和排扣靴，即便当时看上去没什么，现在一看也会觉得这装束奇怪而野蛮。"
"Ideas have changed; invention has followed invention.","观念在改变，新发明一件接着一件。"
"Soldiers were monumental objects then.","士兵在当时是不朽的象征。"
"A divinity still hedged kings here and there; and war was considered a glorious thing.","国王身上依然笼罩着神性的光环，而战争则被看成神圣的事业。"
"Secluded old manor-houses and hamlets lie in the ravines and hollows among these hills, where a stranger had hardly ever been seen till the King chose to take the baths yearly at the sea-side watering-place a few miles to the south; as a consequence of which battalions descended in a cloud upon the open country around.","与世隔绝的古老庄园和村庄，坐落在山间峡谷中，自从国王选择每年到此地以南几英里的海滨浴场沐浴后，这里就很少有外人出入了。因此，这些军队的到来犹如从天而降，落脚在这片空旷的荒野上。"
"Is it necessary to add that the echoes of many characteristic tales, dating from that picturesque time, still linger about here in more or less fragmentary form, to be caught by the attentive ear?","从那个绚丽如画的年代起，就有许多独具特色的故事，虽说情节或多或少已经变得有些支离破碎了，却至今仍在这里流传，传到了有心人的耳朵里。是否还有必要这样补充一句呢？"
"Some of them I have repeated; most of them I have forgotten; one I have never repeated, and assuredly can never forget.","有些故事我已经反复讲过了，大部分故事我都忘记了，只剩一个故事，我从来没有讲过，也永远不会忘记。"
"Phyllis told me the story with her own lips.","菲利斯亲口对我讲了这个故事。"
"She was then an old lady of seventy-five, and her auditor a lad of fifteen.","那时，她是75岁的老妇，她的听众只是一个15岁的少年。"
"She enjoined silence as to her share in the incident, till she should be ‘dead, buried, and forgotten.’","她要求不许将这个故事里有关她的事情说出去，直到她“与世长辞、深埋地下、为人遗忘”之后。"
"Her life was prolonged twelve years after the day of her narration, and she has now been dead nearly twenty.","讲完这个故事后，她又活了12个年头。如今距离她逝世，已经有20个年头了。"
"The oblivion which in her modesty and humility she courted for herself has only partially fallen on her, with the unfortunate result of inflicting an injustice upon her memory; since such fragments of her story as got abroad at the time, and have been kept alive ever since, are precisely those which are most unfavourable to her character.","她谦卑地渴望着自己被人们忘记，却没有被完全遗忘，这样不幸的结果对于她的回忆来说不太公平。因为关于她的故事的只言片语那时已经传到了海外，并且自那以后就一直广为流传，而这些正是她最不想看到的。"
"It all began with the arrival of the York Hussars, one of the foreign regiments above alluded to.","故事是以约克轻骑兵的到来而开始的，这支部队隶属于上文提到的那个外国兵团。"
"Before that day scarcely a soul had been seen near her father’s house for weeks.","在那一天到来之前，她父亲的屋前已经好几个礼拜几乎看不到一个人影了。"
"When a noise like the brushing skirt of a visitor was heard on the doorstep, it proved to be a scudding leaf; when a carriage seemed to be nearing the door, it was her father grinding his sickle on the stone in the garden for his favourite relaxation of trimming the box-tree borders to the plots.","有时门阶上似乎传来了来访者衣摆摩擦的声响，结果却是一片随风飘落的树叶；有时门前似乎传来了马车的辘辘声，结果却是她父亲在花园里磨镰刀的霍霍声；用磨好的镰刀来修建黄杨树的边角，将它们切成一块一块的，这是她父亲最喜欢的休闲活动。"
"A sound like luggage thrown down from the coach was a gun far away at sea; and what looked like a tall man by the gate at dusk was a yew bush cut into a quaint and attenuated shape.","那仿佛是行李从马车上卸下来的声音，只不过是远处海面上的枪响；那暮色中看似出现在门边的高个人影，只不过是紫杉树枝杈被剪成了古雅消瘦的模样。"
"There is no such solitude in country places now as there was in those old days.","在如今的乡村里，再也找不到昔日那样幽静的地方了。"
"Yet all the while King George and his court were at his favourite sea-side resort, not more than five miles off.","然而，乔治国王和他的随从一直停留在那个他最喜欢的海边行宫，那地方离这里不过五英里。"
"The daughter’s seclusion was great, but beyond the seclusion of the girl lay the seclusion of the father.","女儿平时深居简出，但是比起深闺中的女儿，父亲的隐居生活更加封闭。"
"If her social condition was twilight, his was darkness.","倘若将女儿的社交生活比作暮光般暗淡，那么父亲的社交生活就好比是夜晚般黑暗了。"
"Yet he enjoyed his darkness, while her twilight oppressed her.","不过他倒是很享受这样的暗夜般的生活，而他女儿却为自己的灰暗的日子而感到压抑。"
"Dr. Grove had been a professional man whose taste for lonely meditation over metaphysical questions had diminished his practice till it no longer paid him to keep it going; after which he had relinquished it and hired at a nominal rent the small, dilapidated, half farm half manor-house of this obscure inland nook, to make a sufficiency of an income which in a town would have been inadequate for their maintenance.","格罗夫医生曾经是个职业医生，但是他迷上了一度独自思考玄学问题，这使他的出诊次数大幅减少，最后他终于不能靠这份职业维持生计。于是他便放弃了这份工作，名义上交付了一笔租金，在内地这个偏僻的角落寻得一个又小又旧的、半是别墅半是农场的住处，这样一来，他便有了足够的收入来源，倘若在城镇里，这点儿收入还不足以维持基本生活呢。"
"He stayed in his garden the greater part of the day, growing more and more irritable with the lapse of time, and the increasing perception that he had wasted his life in the pursuit of illusions.","一天中的大部分时间，他都呆在花园里，随着时光的流逝，他变得越来越焦躁；频频出现的因追求幻想而虚度人生的想法也让他十分烦躁。"
"He saw his friends less and less frequently.","他去拜访朋友的次数越来越少了。"
"Phyllis became so shy that if she met a stranger anywhere in her short rambles she felt ashamed at his gaze, walked awkwardly, and blushed to her shoulders.","菲利斯变得非常害羞，倘若她在短暂的外出时遇到了生人，别人的凝视都会让她害臊，走路的姿势就会变得别扭起来，整个脸都羞红了，一直红到肩膀。"
"Yet Phyllis was discovered even here by an admirer, and her hand most unexpectedly asked in marriage.","不过就算如此，菲利斯也有了一位仰慕者，并且出乎意料地向她求了婚。"
"The King, as aforesaid, was at the neighbouring town, where he had taken up his abode at Gloucester Lodge and his presence in the town naturally brought many county people thither.","正如上文所说，国王就在附近的镇上，下榻在格洛斯特旅馆，他在镇上的出现自然引来了很多郡上百姓前来看热闹。"
"Among these idlers—many of whom professed to have connections and interests with the Court—was one Humphrey Gould, a bachelor; a personage neither young nor old; neither good-looking nor positively plain.","在这些游手好闲的人中，很多人都声称自己与宫廷有关系，对皇家轶事很有兴趣，其中就有汉弗莱·古尔德。他是一个单身汉，年龄不算年轻但也不老，相貌不算英俊却绝非平庸。"
"Too steady-going to be ‘a buck’ (as fast and unmarried men were then called), he was an approximately fashionable man of a mild type.","他行事稳重，没法给他扣上“花花公子”的帽子（当时很多单身汉都被这样称呼），他算是一个性情温和、比较时髦的人 。"
"This bachelor of thirty found his way to the village on the down: beheld Phyllis; made her father’s acquaintance in order to make hers; and by some means or other she sufficiently inflamed his heart to lead him in that direction almost daily; till he became engaged to marry her.","这位时年30岁的单身汉，在去丘陵上的村子走的路上邂逅了菲利斯，为了能认识她，他去结识了她的父亲。她以某种方式燃起他心中的火焰，他几乎每天都登门拜访，直到最终与她订婚。"
"As he was of an old local family, some of whose members were held in respect in the county, Phyllis, in bringing him to her feet, had accomplished what was considered a brilliant move for one in her constrained position.","由于他来自当地一个古老的家庭，一些家族成员在郡上颇具声望，菲利斯能让他拜倒在自己的裙下，这对于像她这样身处受约束地位的人来说，可谓是个明智之举。"
"How she had done it was not quite known to Phyllis herself.","至于菲利斯如何做到这一点的，连她自己都不知道。"
"In those days unequal marriages were regarded rather as a violation of the laws of nature than as a mere infringement of convention, the more modern view, and hence when Phyllis, of the watering-place bourgeoisie, was chosen by such a gentlemanly fellow, it was as if she were going to be taken to heaven, though perhaps the uninformed would have seen no great difference in the respective positions of the pair, the said Gould being as poor as a crow.","在那个时代，门不当户不对的婚姻被看成是违背了自然法则，而不是更现代一点儿的看法所认为的那样，仅仅是违反了社会风俗。因此，当来自海滨中产阶级的菲利斯被一位绅士选为妻子时，就好比是她被带到了天堂，而也许只有不知情的人才会发现，其实这一对夫妻在各自的地位上并无太大差异，据说是因为古尔德一贫如洗。"
"This pecuniary condition was his excuse—probably a true one—for postponing their union, and as the winter drew nearer, and the King departed for the season, Mr. Humphrey Gould set out for Bath, promising to return to Phyllis in a few weeks.","窘迫的财务状况是他推迟结婚仪式的理由，这个理由多半不是假话。随着冬天的临近，国王为了避寒离开了这个地方，汉弗莱·古尔德先生则动身前往巴斯，并保证几周以后就回到菲利斯身边。"
"The winter arrived, the date of his promise passed, yet Gould postponed his coming, on the ground that he could not very easily leave his father in the city of their sojourn, the elder having no other relative near him.","冬天来了，古尔德许诺过的归期已经过去了，而他却推迟了自己回来的日子，并解释说他无法把自己的父亲一个人留在他们旅居的城市里，因为老人身边没有别的亲戚了。"
"Phyllis, though lonely in the extreme, was content.","菲利斯虽然一个人十分孤单，但心里还是满足的。"
"The man who had asked her in marriage was a desirable husband for her in many ways; her father highly approved of his suit; but this neglect of her was awkward, if not painful, for Phyllis.","向她求婚的这个人，在很多方面对她来说，都是一位理想的丈夫。她父亲就十分赞成他的求婚。但是父亲对自己的这种冷淡态度给她带来的就算不是痛苦，也是一种尴尬的感觉。"
"Love him in the true sense of the word she assured me she never did, but she had a genuine regard for him; admired a certain methodical and dogged way in which he sometimes took his pleasure; valued his knowledge of what the Court was doing, had done, or was about to do; and she was not without a feeling of pride that he had chosen her when he might have exercised a more ambitious choice.","她告诉我，她从来没有真正爱过他，但她对他所怀的尊敬之情是千真万确的。她仰慕他，以某种颇有条理却又固执的方式，让他十分受用；她看重他对皇家事务的见解，他知道宫廷里正在发生的事、已经发生的事和即将发生的事；她对于他选自己为妻深感骄傲，因为他本可以有更好的选择。"
"But he did not come; and the spring developed.","但是他还是没有回来，而春天已经到来了。"
"His letters were regular though formal; and it is not to be wondered that the uncertainty of her position, linked with the fact that there was not much passion in her thoughts of Humphrey, bred an indescribable dreariness in the heart of Phyllis Grove.","他的来信很频繁，但是措词很正式。她所处的地位变得不那么确定了，而她想起汉弗莱的时候心中也没有多少热情了，难怪菲利斯·格罗夫心中会滋生一种莫名的凄凉。"
"The spring was soon summer, and the summer brought the King; but still no Humphrey Gould.","春天很快就变成了夏天，国王在夏天又回到了这里，但是汉弗莱·古尔德依旧没有回来。"
"All this while the engagement by letter was maintained intact.","在这期间，一纸婚约就靠来信维系着。"
"At this point of time a golden radiance flashed in upon the lives of people here, and charged all youthful thought with emotional interest.","就在此时，一道金色的光芒照射了这里人们的生活，给所有年轻的头脑带来了热情洋溢的乐趣。"
"This radiance was the aforesaid York Hussars.","这道光芒便是上文提到过的约克轻骑兵。"

"Chapter II","第二章"
"The present generation has probably but a very dim notion of the celebrated York Hussars of ninety years ago.","现今这代人也许对90年前著名的约克轻骑兵知之甚少。"
"They were one of the regiments of the King’s German Legion, and (though they somewhat degenerated later on) their brilliant uniform, their splendid horses, and above all, their foreign air and mustachios (rare appendages then), drew crowds of admirers of both sexes wherever they went.","他们隶属于皇家德意志兵团，虽然后来这支军队有所没落，但在当时，他们漂亮的制服和俊美的马匹，更重要的是，他们浑身上下散发出的异域气息和别致的髭须（当时这样的装饰并不常见），让他们无论走到哪里，都有一大群男女仰慕者。"
"These with other regiments had come to encamp on the downs and pastures, because of the presence of the King in the neighbouring town.","这些士兵和其他兵团一起来到这里的丘陵和草地安营扎寨，因为国王下榻在附近的镇上。"
"The spot was high and airy, and the view extensive, commanding the Isle of Portland in front, and reaching to St. Aldhelm’s Head eastward, and almost to the Start on the west.","此地地势偏高，空气清新，视野开阔，可以俯视前方的波特兰岛，向东延伸到圣奥尔德海姆岬，向西几乎要抵达斯塔特角。"
"Phyllis, though not precisely a girl of the village, was as interested as any of them in this military investment.","菲利斯虽然算不上是当地的姑娘，但是却和她们一样，对驻防的军队很感兴趣。"
"Her father’s home stood somewhat apart, and on the highest point of ground to which the lane ascended, so that it was almost level with the top of the church tower in the lower part of the parish.","她父亲的房子离军队驻地比较远，坐落在小路尽头的最高点上，几乎与位于郊区低洼处的教堂塔楼的顶端平齐。"
"Immediately from the outside of the garden-wall the grass spread away to a great distance, and it was crossed by a path which came close to the wall.","花园围墙外的草地一直延伸到远方，一条小径从离围墙不远的地方横穿过草地。"
"Ever since her childhood it had been Phyllis’s pleasure to clamber up this fence and sit on the top—a feat not so difficult as it may seem, the walls in this district being built of rubble, without mortar, so that there were plenty of crevices for small toes.","自孩提时代起，菲利斯就很喜欢爬到围墙顶上，坐在那里——这举动看似困难，实则很轻巧，因为这一带的围墙都是由碎石砌成的，没有使用灰泥来涂抹，所以墙中有很多细缝，可以为纤小的脚趾提供落脚之处。"
"She was sitting up here one day, listlessly surveying the pasture without, when her attention was arrested by a solitary figure walking along the path.","有一天，她坐在那片高地上，百无聊赖地打量着墙外的草地，这时她注意到一个孤单的身影徘徊在小径上。"
"It was one of the renowned German Hussars, and he moved onward with his eyes on the ground, and with the manner of one who wished to escape company.","这是一个士兵的身影，他来自那支著名的德意志兵团，他一边往前走，一边注视着地面，那样子看上去不希望有人陪伴。"
"His head would probably have been bent like his eyes but for his stiff neck-gear.","要是没有脖子边的硬领，他的脑袋也许会和他的目光一样低垂着。"
"On nearer view she perceived that his face was marked with deep sadness.","当他走近一些，她注意到他的脸上满是深深的忧伤。"
"Without observing her, he advanced by the footpath till it brought him almost immediately under the wall.","他没有看到她，继续沿着小径往前走，就快要走到墙根下了。"
"Phyllis was much surprised to see a fine, tall soldier in such a mood as this.","菲利斯看到这样一位英俊高大的士兵怀着如此忧郁的心情，感到十分惊讶。"
"Her theory of the military, and of the York Hussars in particular (derived entirely from hearsay, for she had never talked to a soldier in her life), was that their hearts were as gay as their accoutrements.","依据她对军队的认识，特别是对轻骑兵的认识（这种认识完全是来自传闻，因为她本人长这么大还从没有跟士兵说过话），他们的情绪应该跟他们的装束一样，是活泼快乐的。"
"At this moment the Hussar lifted his eyes and noticed her on her perch, the white muslin neckerchief which covered her shoulders and neck where left bare by her low gown, and her white raiment in general, showing conspicuously in the bright sunlight of this summer day.","就在这时，这位轻骑兵抬起了眼睛，看到她高高地坐在那里，身穿一件低领的长袍，肩膀和脖子裸露出来的地方被一件白色棉布围巾裹住了，这一身白色的衣装，在夏日明媚的阳光下十分显眼。"
"He blushed a little at the suddenness of the encounter, and without halting a moment from his pace passed on.","忽然见到她，他的脸略微有点儿红，不过他并没有停下脚步，而是继续往前走。"
"All that day the foreigner’s face haunted Phyllis; its aspect was so striking, so handsome, and his eyes were so blue, and sad, and abstracted.","那一天，这个陌生人的脸庞始终萦绕在菲利斯的脑海里。那面容是那么英俊，那么吸引人；那双眼是那么湛蓝，那么忧伤，那么心不在焉。"
"It was perhaps only natural that on some following day at the same hour she should look over that wall again, and wait till he had passed a second time.","后来的某一天，或许只是很自然的举动，她在同样的时间向围墙外望去，等候他再次路过。"
"On this occasion he was reading a letter, and at the sight of her his manner was that of one who had half expected or hoped to discover her.","这一次，他正在读一封信，当他看见她时，他的表现像是他期盼或者说是希望遇见她。"
"He almost stopped, smiled, and made a courteous salute.","他几乎停了下来，笑了笑，恭敬地行礼。"
"The end of the meeting was that they exchanged a few words.","这次见面结束的时候，他们交谈了几句。"
"She asked him what he was reading, and he readily informed her that he was re-perusing letters from his mother in Germany; he did not get them often, he said, and was forced to read the old ones a great many times.","她问他在读什么，他立刻回答说他在重读他母亲从德国寄来的信。他说，自己不是经常收到家书，所以不得不将旧书信反复阅读好几遍。"
"This was all that passed at the present interview, but others of the same kind followed.","这场谈话的内容不过就是这些，然而之后两人又有了多次类似的交谈。"
"Phyllis used to say that his English, though not good, was quite intelligible to her, so that their acquaintance was never hindered by difficulties of speech.","菲利斯常说，他的英语虽然不太流利，但她是可以听懂的，所以两人之间的熟识没有因语言难题而遭遇障碍。"
"Whenever the subject became too delicate, subtle, or tender, for such words of English as were at his command, the eyes no doubt helped out the tongue, and—though this was later on—the lips helped out the eyes.","不论何时，倘若谈论的话题对于他所掌握的英文来说太细致、太微妙，或者太温柔，眼睛毫无疑问弥补了嘴巴的拙劣，而且——虽然这已经是以后的事情了——嘴唇又反过来弥补了眼神交流的不足。"
"In short this acquaintance, unguardedly made, and rash enough on her part, developed and ripened.","总之，毫无防备下的相识对于她来说是有些鲁莽，但两人的关系却不断发展，日渐成熟。"
"Like Desdemona, she pitied him, and learnt his history.","就像苔丝狄蒙娜一样，她同情他，也了解到了他的过去。"
"His name was Matthäus Tina, and Saarbrück his native town, where his mother was still living.","他的名字叫马托伊斯·蒂纳，他的家乡是萨尔布吕肯，他的母亲现在还住在那里。"
"His age was twenty-two, and he had already risen to the grade of corporal, though he had not long been in the army.","他那时22岁，虽然从军时间不长，却已被提拔为下士。"
"Phyllis used to assert that no such refined or well-educated young man could have been found in the ranks of the purely English regiments, some of these foreign soldiers having rather the graceful manner and presence of our native officers than of our rank and file.","菲利斯曾经感叹道，在纯粹英国人的兵团中是不可能存在这样一位文雅又受过良好教育的年轻人的，一些外国士兵，比起英国士兵来说，更有英国军官的优雅举止和翩翩风度。"
"She by degrees learnt from her foreign friend a circumstance about himself and his comrades which Phyllis would least have expected of the York Hussars.","她渐渐从这位外国朋友这里了解到了他和他的同伴们所处的环境，在这之前菲利斯对约克轻骑兵的生活几乎一无所知。"
"So far from being as gay as its uniform, the regiment was pervaded by a dreadful melancholy, a chronic home-sickness, which depressed many of the men to such an extent that they could hardly attend to their drill.","与他们的活泼而欢快的制服不一样，这支队伍笼罩着强烈的忧郁之情，长年累月的思乡之苦让很多人十分沮丧，以至于他们几乎不能参加日常军事训练。"
"The worst sufferers were the younger soldiers who had not been over here long.","影响最严重的是那些年轻一点儿的新兵，他们入伍的时间还不长。"
"They hated England and English life; they took no interest whatever in King George and his island kingdom, and they only wished to be out of it and never to see it any more.","他们憎恶英国，憎恶英国的生活，他们对于乔治国王和他的岛国没有一丝兴趣，他们只希望离开这里，永远也不要再看见这个地方。"
"Their bodies were here, but their hearts and minds were always far away in their dear fatherland, of which—brave men and stoical as they were in many ways—they would speak with tears in their eyes.","他们虽然身在此地，却心系故乡，一提起那里——虽然他们在很多方面都是勇敢坚强的男子汉——他们的眼中就会充满泪花。"
"One of the worst of the sufferers from this home-woe, as he called it in his own tongue, was Matthäus Tina, whose dreamy musing nature felt the gloom of exile still more intensely from the fact that he had left a lonely mother at home with nobody to cheer her.","这些思乡心切的士兵中有一个最为严重的人，他自己用家乡话将这种感情称为“乡愁”，这个人就是马托伊斯·蒂纳。一想到他将母亲孤独地留在了家中，没人逗她开心，他那爱幻想而好沉思的个性就愈发体会到了背井离乡的忧伤。"
"Though Phyllis, touched by all this, and interested in his history, did not disdain her soldier’s acquaintance, she declined (according to her own account, at least) to permit the young man to overstep the line of mere friendship for a long while—as long, indeed, as she considered herself likely to become the possession of another; though it is probable that she had lost her heart to Matthäus before she was herself aware.","虽然菲利斯被这一切打动了，对他的身世很感兴趣，也没有鄙弃自己与这位士兵的相识关系，但是她拒绝（根据她自己的说法，至少她这样做了）与这位年轻人发展纯粹友谊之外的进一步关系。这一段时间很长，在她认为自己很可能还属于另一段姻缘的整个时间内，她都没有再进一步，不过她大概已经爱上马托伊斯了，只是自己还没有意识到而已。"
"The stone wall of necessity made anything like intimacy difficult; and he had never ventured to come, or to ask to come, inside the garden, so that all their conversation had been overtly conducted across this boundary.","石墙的存在必然使两人之间难以有亲密的举动，他不敢贸然到花园里来，也从没开口提出要进来，所以他们之间的所有交谈，显然只能在这界限之间进行着。"

"Chapter III","第三章"
"But news reached the village from a friend of Phyllis’s father concerning Mr. Humphrey Gould, her remarkably cool and patient betrothed.","但是菲利斯父亲的一个朋友给村里带来了消息，是关于汉弗莱·古尔德先生的——她那位出奇冷静、相当沉得住气的未婚夫。"
"This gentleman had been heard to say in Bath that he considered his overtures to Miss Phyllis Grove to have reached only the stage of a half-understanding; and in view of his enforced absence on his father’s account, who was too great an invalid now to attend to his affairs, he thought it best that there should be no definite promise as yet on either side.","据说，这位先生在巴斯称他与菲利斯小姐之间的关系仅仅停留在彼此不甚理解的阶段。签于父亲的缘故——父亲老身体太虚弱，不能出席儿子的婚事——他被迫离开，他们双方之间最好也不要再有任何明确的承诺。"
"He was not sure, indeed, that he might not cast his eyes elsewhere.","实际上，他不能肯定自己会不会再从别处另寻良缘。"
"This account—though only a piece of hearsay, and as such entitled to no absolute credit—tallied so well with the infrequency of his letters and their lack of warmth, that Phyllis did not doubt its truth for one moment; and from that hour she felt herself free to bestow her heart as she should choose.","这一说辞虽说只是传闻，不一定可信，却很好地解释了他的来信次数为何如此少，两人之间为何缺少热情，因此菲利斯一时间对这个说法的真实性一点儿也不怀疑。也就是从这一刻起，她觉得自己自由了，可以将自己的芳心许给那位心仪的人了。"
"Not so her father; he declared the whole story to be a fabrication.","但她父亲却不这样看，他称这个说法完全是无稽之谈。"
"He had known Mr. Gould’s family from his boyhood; and if there was one proverb which expressed the matrimonial aspect of that family well, it was ‘Love me little, love me long.’","他自幼就知道古尔德先生的家族，如果用一句谚语来形容这个家族的婚姻关系，那就是“爱我长久无需多”。"
"Humphrey was an honourable man, who would not think of treating his engagement so lightly.","汉弗莱是一位值得尊敬的人，他不会如此轻率地对待自己的婚约。"
"‘Do you wait in patience,’ he said; ‘all will be right enough in time.’","“你一定要耐心等待，”她父亲说，“到时候一切都会好起来的。”"
"From these words Phyllis at first imagined that her father was in correspondence with Mr. Gould; and her heart sank within her; for in spite of her original intentions she had been relieved to hear that her engagement had come to nothing.","从这几句话中，菲利斯一开始认为她父亲一定是和古尔德先生通过信了，于是她的心往下一沉，因为虽然她原来是愿意订婚的，但听到婚约解除的消息她倒是松了一口气。"
"But she presently learnt that her father had heard no more of Humphrey Gould than she herself had done; while he would not write and address her affianced directly on the subject, lest it should be deemed an imputation on that bachelor’s honour.","然而，很快她得知父亲和自己一样，没有多从汉弗莱·古尔德那里收到一封信，而他也不愿意直接写信给女儿的未婚夫谈论此事，以免使那位单身汉的名誉受损。"
"‘You want an excuse for encouraging one or other of those foreign fellows to flatter you with his unmeaning attentions,’ her father exclaimed, his mood having of late been a very unkind one towards her.","“你只想要一个借口来鼓励那些外国大兵与你调情，他们对你的关注是毫无意义的。”她父亲这样说道，最近他对她的态度非常不好，"
"‘I see more than I say.","“我看见的远比我对你说的要多。"
"Don’t you ever set foot outside that garden-fence without my permission.","没有我的允许，你不许踏出那花园围墙半步。"
"If you want to see the camp I’ll take you myself some Sunday afternoon.’","如果你想看看军营的模样，我可以找一个礼拜天下午陪你去。”"
"Phyllis had not the smallest intention of disobeying him in her actions, but she assumed herself to be independent with respect to her feelings.","菲利斯在行动上一点儿也不想违背他，她只是觉得自己的感情应该是独立的。"
"She no longer checked her fancy for the Hussar, though she was far from regarding him as her lover in the serious sense in which an Englishman might have been regarded as such.","她不再压抑着自己对那位轻骑兵的爱慕之情，虽然她还不会将他视作自己严格意义上的恋人，若是一个英国人可能就要被这样看待了。"
"The young foreign soldier was almost an ideal being to her, with none of the appurtenances of an ordinary house-dweller; one who had descended she knew not whence, and would disappear she knew not whither; the subject of a fascinating dream—no more.","这位年轻的外国士兵对于她来说是一个理想的存在，没有凡夫俗子生活里的那些琐事，这个人从哪里来，要到哪里去，她都无从得知。他就是一个迷人的梦幻对象——仅此而已。"
"They met continually now—mostly at dusk—during the brief interval between the going down of the sun and the minute at which the last trumpet-call summoned him to his tent.","他们如今继续见面——大多是在黄昏时分——就在太阳落山和最后一声军号召集他回营之间的短暂时光里。"
"Perhaps her manner had become less restrained latterly; at any rate that of the Hussar was so; he had grown more tender every day, and at parting after these hurried interviews she reached down her hand from the top of the wall that he might press it.","也许她最近的举止不再那么拘谨了，那位轻骑兵也放松了下来。日子一天天过去，他变得越来越温柔，每次匆匆见面后的离别时刻，她在墙头将手伸下来，他会握一下她的手。"
"One evening he held it so long that she exclaimed, ‘The wall is white, and somebody in the field may see your shape against it!’","一天傍晚，他握着她的手久久不愿松开，她开口说道：“这墙是白色的，田野里会有人看见你倚墙而站的身形。”"
"He lingered so long that night that it was with the greatest difficulty that he could run across the intervening stretch of ground and enter the camp in time.","那天晚上，他在这里徘徊了很久，费了很大的气力才穿过田野，及时赶回了营地。"
"On the next occasion of his awaiting her she did not appear in her usual place at the usual hour.","下一次他来这里等她时，她没有准时像往常一样在老地方露面。"
"His disappointment was unspeakably keen; he remained staring blankly at the spot, like a man in a trance.","他的失望之情难以言表地强烈，他茫然若失地望着那里，如同一个被催眠的人。"
"The trumpets and tattoo sounded, and still he did not go.","军中的号角吹响了，而他却依旧不愿离去。"
"She had been delayed purely by an accident.","她纯粹是被一件小事给耽搁了。"
"When she arrived she was anxious because of the lateness of the hour, having heard as well as he the sounds denoting the closing of the camp.","来到相会地点时，她由于迟到而惴惴不安，她和他一样听见了号角声，这预示着营地就要关门了。"
"She implored him to leave immediately.","她恳求他立刻离开。"
"‘No,’ he said gloomily.","“不，”他沮丧地说，"
"‘I shall not go in yet—the moment you come—I have thought of your coming all day.’","“我还不想回去——你刚来——一整天我都在盼着你来。”"
"‘But you may be disgraced at being after time?’","“但是如果你回去晚了，会受到惩罚的吧？”"
"‘I don’t mind that.","“我不在乎这个。"
"I should have disappeared from the world some time ago if it had not been for two persons—my beloved, here, and my mother in Saarbrück.","若不是为了两个人——一个是这里的你，我的爱人，一个是我远在萨尔布吕肯的妈妈，我早就从这个世界上消失了。"
"I hate the army.","我讨厌军队。"
"I care more for a minute of your company than for all the promotion in the world.’","比起世界上所有晋升的机会，我更在乎有你陪伴我的每一分钟。”"
"Thus he stayed and talked to her, and told her interesting details of his native place, and incidents of his childhood, till she was in a simmer of distress at his recklessness in remaining.","于是他留下来和她说话，把自己的家乡趣闻和童年轶事讲给她听，直到她为他鲁莽的逗留而感到心中烦恼不安。"
"It was only because she insisted on bidding him good-night and leaving the wall that he returned to his quarters.","仅仅是因为她坚持和他道晚安，并且决意要离开围墙，他才回到了自己的营地。"
"The next time that she saw him he was without the stripes that had adorned his sleeve.","她再见到他时，他身上没有佩戴那些装饰着袖子的军衔条纹。"
"He had been broken to the level of private for his lateness that night; and as Phyllis considered herself to be the cause of his disgrace her sorrow was great.","他由于那天晚上的迟归被降级为列兵，菲利斯认为是自己导致他受罚，因此心中更加悲伤。"
"But the position was now reversed; it was his turn to cheer her.","不过，现在两人的位置交换了，这下轮到他来安慰她了。"
"‘Don’t grieve, meine Liebliche!’ he said.","“别难过，我亲爱的！”他说道，"
"‘I have got a remedy for whatever comes.","“我有一剂良药，可以治愈一切。"
"First, even supposing I regain my stripes, would your father allow you to marry a non-commissioned officer in the York Hussars?’","首先，就算我拿回了我的军衔，你父亲会同意你嫁给约克轻骑队里一个未受委任的军官吗？”"
"She flushed.","她的脸红了。"
"This practical step had not been in her mind in relation to such an unrealistic person as he was; and a moment’s reflection was enough for it.","在与他这样一个非现实的人物交往中，她还没有动过这么实际的念头呢，而此刻的思考已经足够了。"
"‘My father would not—certainly would not,’ she answered unflinchingly.","“我父亲不会的——肯定不会同意的，”她脱口而出，"
"‘It cannot be thought of!","“这一点想都不能想！"
"My dear friend, please do forget me: I fear I am ruining you and your prospects!’","我亲爱的朋友，请忘记我吧，我害怕我会毁了你，毁了你的前途！”"
"‘Not at all!’ said he.","“一点儿也不会！”他说，"
"‘You are giving this country of yours just sufficient interest to me to make me care to keep alive in it.","“因为有了你，我才有足够的兴趣在这个国家生活下去。"
"If my dear land were here also, and my old parent, with you, I could be happy as I am, and would do my best as a soldier.","如果我亲爱的故土也在这里，我年迈的母亲也在这里，和你在一起，我就会像现在一样快乐，我会尽职尽责地去当兵。"
"But it is not so.","但现实却不是这样。"
"And now listen.","现在请听我说。"
"This is my plan.","这是我的计划。"
"That you go with me to my own country, and be my wife there, and live there with my mother and me.","你和我一起回到我的国家去吧，在那里我会娶你为妻，然后你和我，还有我的母亲一起生活下去。"
"I am not a Hanoverian, as you know, though I entered the army as such; my country is by the Saar, and is at peace with France, and if I were once in it I should be free.’","正如你所知，虽然我加入了皇家军队，我并非汉诺威王室家族的人。我的家乡在萨尔边境，和法国人和平相处，只要我能回到那里，我就自由了。”"
"‘But how get there?’ she asked.","“可是该如何才能抵达那里呢？”她问道。"
"Phyllis had been rather amazed than shocked at his proposition.","对于他的提议，菲利斯感到有点儿惊讶，但并不震惊。"
"Her position in her father’s house was growing irksome and painful in the extreme; his parental affection seemed to be quite dried up.","在父亲的屋檐下，她的存在令他越来越反感，也令他极度痛苦。他对她的父爱几乎已经枯竭。"
"She was not a native of the village, like all the joyous girls around her; and in some way Matthäus Tina had infected her with his own passionate longing for his country, and mother, and home.","她不像她身边那些欢快的农家女孩，是土生土长的村里人，马托伊斯·蒂纳对祖国的热情、对母亲和家乡的眷恋都以某种方式影响了她。"
"‘But how?’ she repeated, finding that he did not answer.","“但是怎样才能去呢？”没有得到他的回答，她又重复问了一句，"
"‘Will you buy your discharge?’","“你能获准离开这里吗？”"
"‘Ah, no,’ he said.","“啊，这办不到，”他说，"
"‘That’s impossible in these times.","“在这种时期是不可能办到的。"
"No; I came here against my will; why should I not escape?","不，我违背自己的意愿来到了这里，我为什么不应该逃走呢？"
"Now is the time, as we shall soon be striking camp, and I might see you no more.","现在正是时候了，因为我们很快就要拔营，我也许再也见不到你了。"
"This is my scheme.","我的计划是这样的。"
"I will ask you to meet me on the highway two miles off; on some calm night next week that may be appointed.","我想请你在两英里远的大路上等我，我们约好在下周一个宁静的夜晚相见。"
"There will be nothing unbecoming in it, or to cause you shame; you will not fly alone with me, for I will bring with me my devoted young friend Christoph, an Alsatian, who has lately joined the regiment, and who has agreed to assist in this enterprise.","这件事不会有不妥当的地方，也不会让你的名誉受损。你不会单独和我私奔，因为我会和我一位年轻而忠诚的朋友一同前来，他叫克里斯托弗，是阿尔萨西人，最近才入伍，他同意在这件事中助我一臂之力。"
"We shall have come from yonder harbour, where we shall have examined the boats, and found one suited to our purpose.","我们将从那边的港口出发，在那里我们会检查一下船只，然后挑一艘合适的船来帮我们到达目的地。"
"Christoph has already a chart of the Channel, and we will then go to the harbour, and at midnight cut the boat from her moorings, and row away round the point out of sight; and by the next morning we are on the coast of France, near Cherbourg.","克里斯托弗已经有一张英吉利海峡的地图了，我们到时前往港口，在午夜时分从泊船处解开一条小船，就可以划出人们的视线之外。第二天早上，我们就能抵达法国瑟堡附近的海岸了。"
"The rest is easy, for I have saved money for the land journey, and can get a change of clothes.","剩下的事情就好办了，因为我为在陆地上的行程积蓄了一笔钱，到时可以换一身行头。"
"I will write to my mother, who will meet us on the way.’","我会写信给我母亲，这样她就能在半路上与我们相会。”"
"He added details in reply to her inquiries, which left no doubt in Phyllis’s mind of the feasibility of the undertaking.","针对她的提问，他又补充了一些细节，这使得菲利斯认为这件事情是万无一失的。"
"But its magnitude almost appalled her; and it is questionable if she would ever have gone further in the wild adventure if, on entering the house that night, her father had not accosted her in the most significant terms.","不过，这件事的重要意义几乎把她吓坏了。倘若当晚一回家，她父亲没有用那么严厉的语气与她说话的话，她是否会继续这场冒险还是值得怀疑的。"
"‘How about the York Hussars?’ he said.","“约克轻骑兵们怎么样了？”他问道。"
"‘They are still at the camp; but they are soon going away, I believe.’","“他们还驻扎在这里呢，但是我想他们很快就要开拔了。”"
"‘It is useless for you to attempt to cloak your actions in that way.","“你这样试图隐瞒自己的行动是没有用的。"
"You have been meeting one of those fellows; you have been seen walking with him—foreign barbarians, not much better than the French themselves!","你一直在与其中的一个小伙子约会，我看见你和他一起散步了——这些野蛮的外国人，比法国人他们自己好不到哪里去！"
"I have made up my mind—don’t speak a word till I have done, please!—I have made up my mind that you shall stay here no longer while they are on the spot.","我已经决定了——千万不要在我说完之前插嘴——我已经打定主意了，他们还驻扎在这里的时候，你就不能再留在这里了。"
"You shall go to your aunt’s.’","你去你姑妈那里住吧。”"
"It was useless for her to protest that she had never taken a walk with any soldier or man under the sun except himself.","她辩解道，除了她父亲自己，她还从来没有和任何士兵、任何男人在光天化日下一起散过步，但这无济于事。"
"Her protestations were feeble, too, for though he was not literally correct in his assertion, he was virtually only half in error.","她的抗议也很无力，因为虽然他的说法在字面上讲是错误的，而实际上也算对了一半，并非毫无根据。"
"The house of her father’s sister was a prison to Phyllis.","对于菲利斯来说，她姑妈的房子就是一座监狱。"
"She had quite recently undergone experience of its gloom; and when her father went on to direct her to pack what would be necessary for her to take, her heart died within her.","不久前她才体验过那房子的阴暗，所以当父亲继续指挥她整理必要的行装时，她的心都死了。"
"In after years she never attempted to excuse her conduct during this week of agitation; but the result of her self-communing was that she decided to join in the scheme of her lover and his friend, and fly to the country which he had coloured with such lovely hues in her imagination.","之后的年岁里，她从来没有为自己在这一周里激动的行为辩解。不过她自己反复思考的结果就是，她决定按照她的情人和他朋友的计划，私奔到那个国家。经他的描述，那个国家在她的想象中已经镀上了美丽的光辉。"
"She always said that the one feature in his proposal which overcame her hesitation was the obvious purity and straightforwardness of his intentions.","她常说，他的建议中有一点让她不再犹豫，那就是他那纯洁而直率的目的。"
"He showed himself to be so virtuous and kind; he treated her with a respect to which she had never before been accustomed; and she was braced to the obvious risks of the voyage by her confidence in him.","他展现了自己的正直和善良，他用一种她从未体验过的尊重态度去待她；她信任他，愿意与他共同经历这次旅途中种种显而易见的风险。"

"Chapter IV","第四章"
"It was on a soft, dark evening of the following week that they engaged in the adventure.","在接下来的一周某个漆黑的夜晚，天气宜人，他们踏上了私奔的冒险之旅。"
"Tina was to meet her at a point in the highway at which the lane to the village branched off.","蒂纳将在大路与乡间小道交汇的路口与她见面。"
"Christoph was to go ahead of them to the harbour where the boat lay, row it round the Nothe—or Look-out as it was called in those days—and pick them up on the other side of the promontory, which they were to reach by crossing the harbour-bridge on foot, and climbing over the Look-out hill.","克里斯托弗在他们之前已经动身去了港口，在那里备好船，绕过诺斯——或者按当时的叫法称为瞭望角——然后到海角的另一侧将他们接上船。他们将步行穿过港口桥，再翻过瞭望角的山坡。"
"As soon as her father had ascended to his room she left the house, and, bundle in hand, proceeded at a trot along the lane.","父亲一上楼，她就回到自己的房间，离开家，手里抱了一大捆衣物，沿着小路快步向前走去。"
"At such an hour not a soul was afoot anywhere in the village, and she reached the junction of the lane with the highway unobserved.","这个时辰，村里不见人影，她来到了小路和大道的交汇处，没有人看见她。"
"Here she took up her position in the obscurity formed by the angle of a fence, whence she could discern every one who approached along the turnpike-road, without being herself seen.","她在这里挑了一个位置，让自己的身影正好被路边栅栏的一角挡住，这样她可以打量每一个沿着大路过来的人，而自己又不会被别人发现。"
"She had not remained thus waiting for her lover longer than a minute—though from the tension of her nerves the lapse of even that short time was trying—when, instead of the expected footsteps, the stage-coach could be heard descending the hill.","她站在那里等着她的情人，没过多久——虽然她焦虑的精神状态让这短暂的时光也变得格外难熬——她没有等来情人的脚步，那边却传来了驿站马车下山的声音。"
"She knew that Tina would not show himself till the road was clear, and waited impatiently for the coach to pass.","她知道蒂纳不等到路上没人是不会出现的，所以她焦急地等着马车行驶过去。"
"Nearing the corner where she was it slackened speed, and, instead of going by as usual, drew up within a few yards of her.","经过她站着的那个角落时，马车放慢了速度，车没有像往常一样行驶过去，而是在离她几码远的地方停了下来。"
"A passenger alighted, and she heard his voice.","一位乘客下了车，她听出了他的声音。"
"It was Humphrey Gould’s.","那是汉弗莱·古尔德的声音。"
"He had brought a friend with him, and luggage.","他与他的一位朋友同行，还带着行李。"
"The luggage was deposited on the grass, and the coach went on its route to the royal watering-place.","行李被放在了草地上，马车继续按它的路线驶向皇家海滨行宫。"
"‘I wonder where that young man is with the horse and trap?’ said her former admirer to his companion.","“我想知道，那个赶马车的小伙子在哪儿呢？”她曾经的追求者对他的同伴说，"
"‘I hope we shan’t have to wait here long.","“我希望我们不会在这里等太久，"
"I told him half-past nine o’clock precisely.’","我告诉他9点半准时过来。”"
"‘Have you got her present safe?’","“你把送给她的礼物放好了吗？”"
"‘Phyllis’s?","“给菲利斯的？"
"O, yes.","噢，当然。"
"It is in this trunk.","就在箱子里。"
"I hope it will please her.’","我希望她会喜欢。”"
"‘Of course it will.","“肯定会的。"
"What woman would not be pleased with such a handsome peace-offering?’","哪个女孩会不为这如此慷慨的礼物所打动呢？”"
"‘Well—she deserves it.","“是呀——她值得拥有这份礼物。"
"I’ve treated her rather badly.","我对待她太不好了。"
"But she has been in my mind these last two days much more than I should care to confess to everybody.","但是过去的两天中，她一直在我的脑海里，我不在乎把我的思念之情告诉所有人。"
"Ah, well; I’ll say no more about that.","啊，好吧。我不会再讲这些了。"
"It cannot be that she is so bad as they make out.","她不可能像他们所说的那样是一个坏女孩。"
"I am quite sure that a girl of her good wit would know better than to get entangled with any of those Hanoverian soldiers.","我非常肯定，像她这样一个聪明的女孩子，是不会愿意和汉诺威的任何一个士兵纠缠在一起的。"
"I won’t believe it of her, and there’s an end on’t.’","我不相信那些关于她的传言，不要再提了。”"
"More words in the same strain were casually dropped as the two men waited; words which revealed to her, as by a sudden illumination, the enormity of her conduct.","两人一边等，一边还以同样的语气不时交谈几句，这些话突然间让她明白，自己的所作所为是多么邪恶。"
"The conversation was at length cut off by the arrival of the man with the vehicle.","他们的对话最后被赶车人的到来而打断。"
"The luggage was placed in it, and they mounted, and were driven on in the direction from which she had just come.","行李被放进了车里，他们也上了车，正朝着她来的方向驶去。"
"Phyllis was so conscience-stricken that she was at first inclined to follow them; but a moment’s reflection led her to feel that it would only be bare justice to Matthäus to wait till he arrived, and explain candidly that she had changed her mind—difficult as the struggle would be when she stood face to face with him.","菲利斯的良心十分不安，一开始她想跟随他们离开，但转念一想，她觉得自己只有等马托伊斯到了以后，将自己改变主意的理由坦诚相告，这样对于他来说才算公平——虽然这样一来，她面对他时心里会很痛苦。"
"She bitterly reproached herself for having believed reports which represented Humphrey Gould as false to his engagement, when, from what she now heard from his own lips, she gathered that he had been living full of trust in her.","她痛苦地责备自己不该相信那些关于汉弗莱·古尔德悔婚的传言，从她听到他亲口说的内容来看，她知道他一直十分信任自己。"
"But she knew well enough who had won her love.","但是她也很清楚自己爱的是谁。"
"Without him her life seemed a dreary prospect, yet the more she looked at his proposal the more she feared to accept it—so wild as it was, so vague, so venturesome.","要是没有了他，她的生活将一片黯淡，但是她越回想起他的提议，就越害怕接受它——这提议是如此大胆、如此暧昧，又是如此危险。"
"She had promised Humphrey Gould, and it was only his assumed faithlessness which had led her to treat that promise as nought.","她对汉弗莱·古尔德作过许诺，而他对此表现出的不忠才使得她做出违背诺言的行为。"
"His solicitude in bringing her these gifts touched her; her promise must be kept, and esteem must take the place of love.","他想要带给她那些礼物的急切心情打动了她，她许下的诺言必须遵守，尊严要代替爱的地位。"
"She would preserve her self-respect.","她将保持自己的自尊心。"
"She would stay at home, and marry him, and suffer.","她将留在家中，嫁给她，忍受一辈子。"
"Phyllis had thus braced herself to an exceptional fortitude when, a few minutes later, the outline of Matthäus Tina appeared behind a field-gate, over which he lightly leapt as she stepped forward.","菲利斯以巨大的毅力支持着自己，几分钟后，马托伊斯的身影出现在一处栅栏门后，他轻轻地跳过来，她迎了上去。"
"There was no evading it, he pressed her to his breast.","他将她搂在怀里，她没有避开。"
"‘It is the first and last time!’ she wildly thought as she stood encircled by his arms.","“这是第一次，也是最后一次！”她被他拥在怀里，心中冒出这疯狂的想法。"
"How Phyllis got through the terrible ordeal of that night she could never clearly recollect.","她无法清楚地记起自己是如何煎熬着度过那一夜了。"
"She always attributed her success in carrying out her resolve to her lover’s honour, for as soon as she declared to him in feeble words that she had changed her mind, and felt that she could not, dared not, fly with him, he forbore to urge her, grieved as he was at her decision.","她一直认为，她之所以能够实现自己的决心，是因为她的情人尊重了她的想法。当时她用虚弱的话语告诉他，她改变了主意，她觉得自己不能也不敢和他私奔。而一听她这么说，他马上压抑住了自己敦促她的冲动，因她的决定而伤心欲绝。"
"Unscrupulous pressure on his part, seeing how romantically she had become attached to him, would no doubt have turned the balance in his favour.","虽然他承受着巨大的道德压力，但是看到她还是如此强烈地爱着自己，他完全是可以将局面变成对他有利的状况。"
"But he did nothing to tempt her unduly or unfairly.","然而他没有引诱她去做不恰当或是不公平的事情。"
"On her side, fearing for his safety, she begged him to remain.","对于她来说，由于担心他的安全，她乞求他留下来。"
"This, he declared, could not be.","对于这一点，他表示绝对不可能了。"
"‘I cannot break faith with my friend,’ said he.","“我不能破坏与朋友的约定。”他说。"
"Had he stood alone he would have abandoned his plan.","倘若他是一个人的话，他可能会放弃自己的计划。"
"But Christoph, with the boat and compass and chart, was waiting on the shore; the tide would soon turn; his mother had been warned of his coming; go he must.","但是克里斯托弗驾驶着小船，身上还携带着指南针和地图，正在岸边等着他们呢。海潮很快就要涨起来了，他母亲已经得到了他要回去的通知，所以他必须将计划继续下去。"
"Many precious minutes were lost while he tarried, unable to tear himself away.","他的逗留浪费了宝贵的几分钟时间，他依依不舍，不愿离开。"
"Phyllis held to her resolve, though it cost her many a bitter pang.","菲利斯坚持自己的决定，虽然这让她极度痛苦。"
"At last they parted, and he went down the hill.","最后他们终于分了手，他向山下走去。"
"Before his footsteps had quite died away she felt a desire to behold at least his outline once more, and running noiselessly after him regained view of his diminishing figure.","就在他的脚步即将消失在远方的时候，她有一种冲动想至少再看一眼他的身影，于是默默地跟在他身后，再次看见他的背影渐行渐远。"
"For one moment she was sufficiently excited to be on the point of rushing forward and linking her fate with his.","有那么一刻，她变得十分激动，恨不得立刻冲上去，让两人的命运从此交织在一起。"
"But she could not.","但是她不能这么做。"
"The courage which at the critical instant failed Cleopatra of Egypt could scarcely be expected of Phyllis Grove.","菲利斯·格罗夫就像埃及艳后克里奥帕特拉一样，在关键时刻失去了勇气。"
"A dark shape, similar to his own, joined him in the highway.","一个和他差不多的黑影在大路上与他碰面了。"
"It was Christoph, his friend.","那是他的朋友克里斯托弗。"
"She could see no more; they had hastened on in the direction of the town and harbour, four miles ahead.","她再也看不清楚了，他们匆匆朝四英里外的镇子和港口的方向走去。"
"With a feeling akin to despair she turned and slowly pursued her way homeward.","她心头涌起一股类似于绝望的感觉，她转过身，慢慢地往家走去。"
"Tattoo sounded in the camp; but there was no camp for her now.","军营里的军号响起了，但对于她来说，此刻已经不再有什么军营了。"
"It was as dead as the camp of the Assyrians after the passage of the Destroying Angel.","四周死一般的寂静，如同毁灭天使降临之后的亚述人的军营。"
"She noiselessly entered the house, seeing nobody, and went to bed.","她悄悄地进了家门，什么人也没看见，就去睡觉了。"
"Grief, which kept her awake at first, ultimately wrapped her in a heavy sleep.","起初，悲伤让她辗转难眠，后来，她终于在悲伤的包围中陷入了沉睡。"
"The next morning her father met her at the foot of the stairs.","第二天早上，她父亲在楼梯下迎接她。"
"‘Mr. Gould is come!’ he said triumphantly.","“古尔德先生来了！”他得意地说。"
"Humphrey was staying at the inn, and had already called to inquire for her.","汉弗莱住在旅馆里，已经登门过一次，请求见她。"
"He had brought her a present of a very handsome looking-glass in a frame of repoussé silverwork, which her father held in his hand.","他给她带来了一件礼物，是一个精美的梳妆镜，镶嵌在有花边的银框中，她父亲将这礼物捧在手里。"
"He had promised to call again in the course of an hour, to ask Phyllis to walk with him.","他说一小时之后还会再来，并邀请菲利斯到时和他一同散步。"
"Pretty mirrors were rarer in country-houses at that day than they are now, and the one before her won Phyllis’s admiration.","和现在不同，那个时代，在乡下的房子里很少能见到漂亮的镜子，眼前的这面镜子令菲利斯十分中意。"
"She looked into it, saw how heavy her eyes were, and endeavoured to brighten them.","她向镜子里望去，看见自己的眼神十分沉痛，要花好大力气才使它们看上去愉快一点儿。"
"She was in that wretched state of mind which leads a woman to move mechanically onward in what she conceives to be her allotted path.","她的心情十分低落，怀着这种情绪的女人会机械地走上别人为她指定的道路。"
"Mr. Humphrey had, in his undemonstrative way, been adhering all along to the old understanding; it was for her to do the same, and to say not a word of her own lapse.","汉弗莱先生已经以自己含蓄的方式遵守了过去的约定，她也要照做，并对自己的过失只字不提。"
"She put on her bonnet and tippet, and when he arrived at the hour named she was at the door awaiting him.","她戴上软帽，穿上披肩，当他在约好的时间到达时，她正站在门口等着他。"

"Chapter V","第五章"
"Phyllis thanked him for his beautiful gift; but the talking was soon entirely on Humphrey’s side as they walked along.","菲利斯对他精美的礼物表达了谢意，但两人开始散起步来以后，谈话很快就完全由汉弗莱一人掌控了。"
"He told her of the latest movements of the world of fashion—a subject which she willingly discussed to the exclusion of anything more personal—and his measured language helped to still her disquieted heart and brain.","他对她讲起外面世界最近流行的事物——比起更加私人的事情，这个话题是她很愿意谈论的——他说话很有分寸，让她不安的心平静了下来。"
"Had not her own sadness been what it was she must have observed his embarrassment.","倘若不是因为她自己的悲伤情绪，她一定会注意到他的尴尬表情。"
"At last he abruptly changed the subject.","最后，他突然改变了话题。"
"‘I am glad you are pleased with my little present,’ he said.","“你喜欢我的小礼物，这让我很高兴，”他说，"
"‘The truth is that I brought it to propitiate ’ee, and to get you to help me out of a mighty difficulty.’","“事实上，我送给你这个礼物是想给你带来安慰，并且请你帮我解决一个大难题。”"
"It was inconceivable to Phyllis that this independent bachelor—whom she admired in some respects—could have a difficulty.","菲利斯料想不到这样一位独立的单身男人——在某些方面自己还是很敬佩他的——会遇到困难。"
"‘Phyllis—I’ll tell you my secret at once; for I have a monstrous secret to confide before I can ask your counsel.","“菲利斯——我马上就要告诉你我的秘密了，我有一个天大的秘密要吐露，之后我要询问你的意见。"
"The case is, then, that I am married: yes, I have privately married a dear young belle; and if you knew her, and I hope you will, you would say everything in her praise.","这件事就是，嗯，我结婚了。是的，我秘密地同一位年轻的美人结婚了。如果你认识她，如果不认识的话我非常希望你们能相识，你一定会对她赞不绝口的。"
"But she is not quite the one that my father would have chose for me—you know the paternal idea as well as I—and I have kept it secret.","但她不是我父亲为我相中的结婚对象——你和我一样了解父亲的意见是怎么一回事——所以我一直对这桩婚事保密。"
"There will be a terrible noise, no doubt; but I think that with your help I may get over it.","毫无疑问，这会引起轩然大波。但是我认为，如果你能帮助我的话，我就一定能渡过难关。"
"If you would only do me this good turn—when I have told my father, I mean—say that you never could have married me, you know, or something of that sort—’pon my life it will help to smooth the way vastly.","只要你能同意这么说——我是说，我已经告诉我父亲了——说你绝对不会嫁给我，你知道，类似这样的话——我担保这会极大地使情况好转起来。"
"I am so anxious to win him round to my point of view, and not to cause any estrangement.’","我非常想让他接受我的婚姻决定，也不想造成任何关系的疏远。”"
"What Phyllis replied she scarcely knew, or how she counselled him as to his unexpected situation.","菲利斯是如何回答的，对于他你出乎预料的处境是如何给出建议的，这些她都记不清楚了。"
"Yet the relief that his announcement brought her was perceptible.","然而他的话带给她的那种如释重负的感觉，依然清晰。"
"To have confided her trouble in return was what her aching heart longed to do; and had Humphrey been a woman she would instantly have poured out her tale.","她内心痛苦，非常想将自己的烦恼一吐为快作为回报，假如汉弗莱是女人，她肯定立刻就把自己的心事讲出来了。"
"But to him she feared to confess; and there was a real reason for silence, till a sufficient time had elapsed to allow her lover and his comrade to get out of harm’s way.","但是她不敢对他吐露心声，她沉默还有一个真正的原因，那就是为她的恋人和他的伙伴顺利远离危险争取时间。"
"As soon as she reached home again she sought a solitary place, and spent the time in half regretting that she had not gone away, and in dreaming over the meetings with Matthäus Tina from their beginning to their end.","她一回到家就找了一个安静的地方，开始后悔自己没有离开，回想着她与马托伊斯·蒂纳从初次相识到分手之间的数次见面。"
"In his own country, amongst his own countrywomen, he would possibly soon forget her, even to her very name.","在他自己的国家，在本国的姑娘中间，他肯定很快就会将她忘记，甚至连名字都记不得了。"
"Her listlessness was such that she did not go out of the house for several days.","她情绪低落，以至于一连好几天都没有出门。"
"There came a morning which broke in fog and mist, behind which the dawn could be discerned in greenish grey; and the outlines of the tents, and the rows of horses at the ropes.","一天早晨，浓雾笼罩着大地，透过雾气可以看见青灰色的天空，帐篷的轮廓和一排排拴着缰绳的马匹也依稀可辨。"
"The smoke from the canteen fires drooped heavily.","炊事班的篝火冒出的烟沉重地低垂着。"
"The spot at the bottom of the garden where she had been accustomed to climb the wall to meet Matthäus, was the only inch of English ground in which she took any interest; and in spite of the disagreeable haze prevailing she walked out there till she reached the well-known corner.","花园尽头是她曾经常常爬上墙头与马托伊斯见面的地点，这是这个国家她唯一留恋的土地。她不顾四处弥漫着恼人的雾气，走了出去，来到了自己很熟悉的那个角落。"
"Every blade of grass was weighted with little liquid globes, and slugs and snails had crept out upon the plots.","每个草尖上都挂着小露珠，蛞蝓和蜗牛在田垄上蠕动着。"
"She could hear the usual faint noises from the camp, and in the other direction the trot of farmers on the road to the town, for it was market-day.","她能听见军营那边传来的如往常一样微小的声响，另一边传来的是农人走在通往城里的路上的脚步声，因为今天是赶集的日子。"
"She observed that her frequent visits to this corner had quite trodden down the grass in the angle of the wall, and left marks of garden soil on the stepping-stones by which she had mounted to look over the top.","她发现，因为自己常常到这里来，墙角的草被踩平了一片，她临墙眺望时踩在脚下的石阶上，还残留着一些花园里的泥土。"
"Seldom having gone there till dusk, she had not considered that her traces might be visible by day.","除了傍晚时分，她很少在别的时刻到这里来，所以没有注意到她留下的痕迹在白天是清晰可见的。"
"Perhaps it was these which had revealed her trysts to her father.","也许她父亲就是凭这些发现了她的约会。"
"While she paused in melancholy regard, she fancied that the customary sounds from the tents were changing their character.","她满怀忧郁地站在那里，猜想军营里往常的声响正在发生变化。"
"Indifferent as Phyllis was to camp doings now, she mounted by the steps to the old place.","菲利斯现在对军营里那些事情已经漠不关心了，不过她还是忍不住顺着台阶爬到老地方。"
"What she beheld at first awed and perplexed her; then she stood rigid, her fingers hooked to the wall, her eyes staring out of her head, and her face as if hardened to stone.","一开始，她的所见令她既惊讶又糊涂，接着她僵硬地站在那里，手指紧紧攥住墙头，眼睛瞪得大大的，她的脸僵硬如石。"
"On the open green stretching before her all the regiments in the camp were drawn up in line, in the mid-front of which two empty coffins lay on the ground.","在她面前那片开阔的绿地上，军营里所有的官兵都列队站在那里，人群中间的地上放着两口空棺材。"
"The unwonted sounds which she had noticed came from an advancing procession.","她所听见的异常声音来自一个前进的队伍。"
"It consisted of the band of the York Hussars playing a dead march; next two soldiers of that regiment in a mourning coach, guarded on each side, and accompanied by two priests.","队伍中约克轻骑兵的乐队正演奏着一支葬礼进行曲，旁边一辆送殡车里有团里的两个士兵，车两边有卫队护送，两位牧师守在旁边。"
"Behind came a crowd of rustics who had been attracted by the event.","队伍后面还跟了一大群看热闹的乡民。"
"The melancholy procession marched along the front of the line, returned to the centre, and halted beside the coffins, where the two condemned men were blindfolded, and each placed kneeling on his coffin; a few minutes pause was now given, while they prayed.","这支悲伤的队伍沿着列队士兵的前排往前走，又回到场地的中间，在棺材后面停了下来，两位被判死刑的士兵被蒙住眼睛，跪在各自的棺材上，留了几分钟给他们祈祷。"
"A firing-party of twenty-four men stood ready with levelled carbines.","一支由24人组成的行刑队举起了卡宾枪，一切准备就绪。"
"The commanding officer, who had his sword drawn, waved it through some cuts of the sword-exercise till he reached the downward stroke, whereat the firing-party discharged their volley.","司令官拔出剑，摆出练习的招式挥动了几下，最后把剑向下一劈，于是行刑队一齐放枪。"
"The two victims fell, one upon his face across his coffin, the other backwards.","两个受刑者栽倒在地，一人脸朝下倒在棺材上，另一人面朝上。"
"As the volley resounded there arose a shriek from the wall of Dr. Grove’s garden, and some one fell down inside; but nobody among the spectators without noticed it at the time.","枪声响起时，格罗夫医生的花园传来了一声尖叫，有人在那里昏倒了，但是当时在外面围观行刑的人谁也没有注意到。"
"The two executed Hussars were Matthäus Tina and his friend Christoph.","两位被处死的轻骑兵就是马托伊斯·蒂纳和他的朋友克里斯托弗。"
"The soldiers on guard placed the bodies in the coffins almost instantly; but the colonel of the regiment, an Englishman, rode up and exclaimed in a stern voice: ‘Turn them out—as an example to the men!’","旁边守卫的士兵立刻就将两人的尸体收入棺中。但是军中的英国上校骑马走上前来，用严厉的声音宣布说：“把他们倒出来，以儆效尤！”"
"The coffins were lifted endwise, and the dead Germans flung out upon their faces on the grass.","棺材被翻转过来，死去的德国士兵被甩了出来，脸朝下倒在草地上。"
"Then all the regiments wheeled in sections, and marched past the spot in slow time.","然后，整个兵团的士兵排着队，缓缓地绕着他们走过一圈。"
"When the survey was over the corpses were again coffined, and borne away.","仪式结束后，两具尸体又被搬回棺材里运走了。"
"Meanwhile Dr. Grove, attracted by the noise of the volley, had rushed out into his garden, where he saw his wretched daughter lying motionless against the wall.","与此同时，格罗夫医生也注意到了枪响，他跑到花园里，却发现自己的女儿倚墙躺着，不省人事。"
"She was taken indoors, but it was long before she recovered consciousness; and for weeks they despaired of her reason.","她被送回了屋，但是过了很长时间她才恢复了意识。有好几个星期，她失常的举动都令人绝望。"
"It transpired that the luckless deserters from the York Hussars had cut the boat from her moorings in the adjacent harbour, according to their plan, and, with two other comrades who were smarting under ill-treatment from their colonel, had sailed in safety across the Channel.","听说，约克轻骑兵团这两名不走运的逃兵在附近的港口解开小船，按计划与另外两名受到上校虐待的同伴一起逃亡，他们安全地驶过了海峡。"
"But mistaking their bearings they steered into Jersey, thinking that island the French coast.","但是，他们却错误地驶进了泽西岛，以为那就是法国海岸。"
"Here they were perceived to be deserters, and delivered up to the authorities.","在那里，他们的逃兵身份被认了出来，并被扭送至当局。"
"Matthäus and Christoph interceded for the other two at the court-martial, saying that it was entirely by the former’s representations that these were induced to go.","在军事法庭上，马托伊斯和克里斯托弗为其他两人说情，说这两个人是受到他们引诱才逃跑的，将罪责全部揽到了自己身上。"
"Their sentence was accordingly commuted to flogging, the death punishment being reserved for their leaders.","于是那两人只受到了鞭刑，而领头的两人则被判死刑。"
"The visitor to the well-known old Georgian watering-place, who may care to ramble to the neighbouring village under the hills, and examine the register of burials, will there find two entries in these words:—","到从前著名的乔治国王海边度假地来观光的人们，也许会愿意到山脚下邻近的村庄漫步，如果他们翻看过村里的葬仪簿，就会看到两个人名下写着这样的话："
"‘Matth:—Tina (Corpl.) in His Majesty’s Regmt. of York Hussars, and Shot for Desertion, was Buried June 30th, 1801, aged 22 years.","“马托伊斯·蒂纳（下士），隶属皇家约克骑兵团，因逃亡被枪决，葬于1801年6月30日，时年22岁。"
"Born in the town of Sarrbruk, Germany.","出生于德国萨尔布吕克郡。”"
"‘Christoph Bless, belonging to His Majesty’s Regmt. of York Hussars, who was Shot for Desertion, was Buried June 30th, 1801, aged 22 years.","“克里斯托弗·布雷斯，隶属皇家约克骑兵团，因逃亡被枪决，葬于1801年6月30日，时年22岁。"
"Born at Lothaargen, Alsatia.’","出生于阿尔萨斯罗萨尔根。”"
"Their graves were dug at the back of the little church, near the wall.","他们的墓地位于小教堂后面靠近墙角的地方。"
"There is no memorial to mark the spot, but Phyllis pointed it out to me.","墓前没有纪念碑来标记这个地方，但是菲利斯将它指给我看。"
"While she lived she used to keep their mounds neat; but now they are overgrown with nettles, and sunk nearly flat.","她在世的时候时常去给他们扫墓，如今这里已经长满了荨麻，而且坟头也下沉了，几乎成了平地。"
"The older villagers, however, who know of the episode from their parents, still recollect the place where the soldiers lie.","不过，年纪大一点儿的村里人从他们的父母那里听过这个故事，还能记得这里埋葬着两个士兵。"
"Phyllis lies near.","菲利斯就埋在他们旁边。"
"October 1889.","1889年10月"

