"书名巨人杀手杰克传奇（中世纪奇幻之作）短简介雄心勃勃的少年如何打败众多巨人从魔堡救出公主？故事的主人公杰克，聪明、勇敢，并立志要打败巨人，维护国家的和平。他凭借自己过人的胆识，以及几件法宝：快马、宝剑、飞鞋、隐形衣、一次又一次的斩杀可怕的巨人，他最终救出美丽的公主，与其过上幸福富足的生活。长简介巨人杀手杰克传奇是中世纪奇幻之作。讲述了一个小人物多次打败巨人的英雄事迹。跌宕起伏的故事情节，死里逃生的精彩逆转一方面丰富了整个短篇故事的内容，使之生动、惊险；另一方面突出体现了故事主人公杰克过人的胆识和超凡的智慧。历险中出现的几件宝物：快马、宝剑、飞鞋、隐形衣也使得整个故事的传奇色彩更浓重。最后公主与英雄幸福生活的结局也延续了童话小说一贯的浪漫主义情结，给故事画上了一个圆满的句号。人类与巨人的这场较量，人类的最后胜出歌颂了人类的智慧和无穷力量。本篇不失为一篇别具匠心的童话故事。关键字巨人杀手；安德鲁·朗格；杰克；外研社编译组；短篇；中世纪；传奇作者（英）安德鲁·朗格作者简介安德鲁·朗格（1844—1912），生于苏格兰，兼有诗人、小说家、文学评论家和民俗学家等多重身份，以收集和整理世界各地的民间传说及故事而闻名。由他编纂并分别以十二种颜色命名的《彩色童话集》（又称《朗格童话》）中，汇集了许多著名的童话故事与来自欧洲、亚洲、美洲、非洲各地的民间传说，为孩子们创造了一个色彩瑰丽的童话世界。书评童话中饱含的爱与善的主题、积极向上的乐观精神、绚丽多姿的幻想品格，其中所蕴涵的人性美、艺术美、幻想美，温暖和照亮了全世界一代又一代儿童以及大人的心灵。人类的智慧和力量是无穷的。"
"The History of Jack the Giant Killer ","巨人杀手杰克传奇"
"by Andrew Lang","作者：安德鲁·朗格"
"In the reign of the famous King Arthur there lived in Cornwall a lad named Jack, who was a boy of a bold temper, and took delight in hearing or reading of conjurers, giants, and fairies; and used to listen eagerly to the deeds of the knights of King Arthur’s Round Table.","在著名的亚瑟王执政时期，在康沃尔郡住着一位名叫杰克的小伙子，他生性大胆，乐于听人讲诉或者阅读关于魔术师、巨人和精灵的故事；并且曾十分痴迷于倾听亚瑟王圆桌会议中那些骑士的英雄事迹。"
"In those days there lived on St. Michael’s Mount, off Cornwall, a huge giant, eighteen feet high and nine feet round; his fierce and savage looks were the terror of all who beheld him.","那个时代，在康沃尔郡外的圣迈克尔山上住着一个身高十八英尺、腰围九英尺的巨人；凡是见过他的人都会被他那凶残野蛮的相貌吓到。"
"He dwelt in a gloomy cavern on the top of the mountain, and used to wade over to the mainland in search of prey; when he would throw half a dozen oxen upon his back, and tie three times as many sheep and hogs round his waist, and march back to his own abode.","他居住在山顶一个阴暗的洞穴里，经常下山寻觅猎物；狩猎时他会背驮六头公牛，腰上再拴三倍多的猪羊，迈步回到自己的老窝。"
"The giant had done this for many years when Jack resolved to destroy him.","这巨人已经这样作恶多年，杰克下定决心来铲除他。"
"Jack took a horn, a shovel, a pickaxe, his armor, and a dark lantern, and one winter’s evening he went to the mount.","杰克带上一只号角、一把铲子、一只鹤嘴锄、他的盔甲、一盏黑皮灯，在一个冬天的夜晚向山顶进发。"
"There he dug a pit twenty-two feet deep and twenty broad.","他在山顶上挖了一个二十二英尺深、二十英尺宽的大坑。"
"He covered the top over so as to make it look like solid ground.","他把上头掩盖起来，让它看上去像坚实的平地一样。"
"He then blew his horn so loudly that the giant awoke and came out of his den crying out: “You saucy villain! you shall pay for this I’ll broil you for my breakfast!”","然后他奋力吹响他的号角，直到巨人被吵醒，走出洞穴大声叫喊道：“你这个下流的小坏蛋！你将为此付出代价，我要烤了你做我的早餐！”"
"He had just finished, when, taking one step further, he tumbled headlong into the pit, and Jack struck him a blow on the head with his pickaxe which killed him.","他刚说完这些，向前迈出一步的时候，他倒栽葱摔在了坑里，杰克抡起鹤嘴锄往他头上一砸，把他杀死了。"
"Jack then returned home to cheer his friends with the news.","然后杰克回到家告诉朋友们这个消息，大家都欢呼喝彩。"
"Another giant, called Blunderbore, vowed to be revenged on Jack if ever he should have him in his power.","另一个叫做布拉格登堡的巨人发誓，一旦杰克落到他手上，一定要向他报仇雪恨。"
"This giant kept an enchanted castle in the midst of a lonely wood; and some time after the death of Cormoran Jack was passing through a wood, and being weary, sat down and went to sleep.","这个巨人住在偏僻森林中一座被施了魔法的城堡里；在科尔莫朗死后不久，杰克经过那片森林时，他感到非常疲惫，就坐下来睡着了。"
"The giant, passing by and seeing Jack, carried him to his castle, where he locked him up in a large room, the floor of which was covered with the bodies, skulls and bones of men and women.","巨人正好经过并发现了杰克，就把他带到自己的城堡，关在了一间大房间里，房间的地板上堆满了男人和女人的尸体、头颅和骷髅。"
"Soon after the giant went to fetch his brother who was likewise a giant, to take a meal off his flesh; and Jack saw with terror through the bars of his prison the two giants approaching.","不一会儿，巨人叫来了自己的兄弟——当也是一个巨人——来分享这顿人肉美味；杰克心惊胆战地透过囚室的铁栏杆看到两个巨人越走越近。"
"Jack, perceiving in one corner of the room a strong cord, took courage, and making a slip-knot at each end, he threw them over their heads, and tied it to the window-bars; he then pulled till he had choked them.","杰克发现房间的一个墙角有一条坚实的绳索，就鼓起勇气，在绳子的两端各系了一个活结，向他俩的头上方扔去，并把绳子系在了窗户的铁栏杆上；接着他使劲拽着绳子直到让他们窒息。"
"When they were black in the face he slid down the rope and stabbed them to the heart.","当他们面色发黑的时候他顺着绳索滑下去，刺穿了他们的心脏。"
"Jack next took a great bunch of keys from the pocket of Blunderbore, and went into the castle again.","然后杰克从布拉登堡的口袋里掏出一大串钥匙，再一次进了城堡。"
"He made a strict search through all the rooms, and in one of them found three ladies tied up by the hair of their heads, and almost starved to death.","他仔细地搜查了所有房间，在其中的一个房间里发现了三位女士，她们被自己的头发绑了起来，都被饿得奄奄一息了。"
"They told him that their husbands had been killed by the giants, who had then condemned them to be starved to death because they would not eat the flesh of their own dead husbands.","她们告诉杰克她们的丈夫被巨人杀死了，而她们因为不肯吃死去丈夫的肉，巨人要将她们活活饿死。"
"“Ladies,” said Jack, “I have put an end to the monster and his wicked brother; and I give you this castle and all the riches it contains, to make some amends for the dreadful pains you have felt.”","“女士们，”杰克说，“我已经了结了这个恶魔和他那邪恶兄弟的姓名；我把这座城堡和里面所有的财产留给你们，以弥补你们所承受的巨大伤痛。”"
"He then very politely gave them the keys of the castle, and went further on his journey to Wales.","然后他非常礼貌地把城堡的钥匙交给了她们，继续自己的威尔士之旅。"
"As Jack had but little money, he went on as fast as possible.","因为杰克只带了极少的路费，所以他尽可能快地赶路。"
"At length he came to a handsome house.","最后他来到一幢非常漂亮的小屋跟前。"
"Jack knocked at the door, when there came forth a Welsh giant.","杰克敲了敲门，开门的是一位威尔士巨人。"
"Jack said he was a traveler who had lost his way, on which the giant made him welcome, and let him into a room where there was a good bed to sleep in.","杰克说他是一位迷了路的旅人，巨人热烈地欢迎了他，并把他领到了一间有着舒适大床的房间里。"
"Jack took off his clothes quickly, but though he was weary he could not go to sleep.","杰克很快脱掉了他的衣服，但是因为他太过劳累而睡不着。"
"Soon after this he heard the giant walking backward and forward in the next room, and saying to himself:","不一会儿他听到巨人在隔壁房间踱来踱去，并且自言自语："
"@“Though here you lodge with me this night,@","“尽管你今晚投宿到我家，”"
"@You shall not see the morning light;@","你甭想看到明天的太阳光；"
"@My club shall dash your brains out quite.”@","我的短棍准叫你脑袋开花。”"
"“Say you so?” thought Jack.","“这就是你所说的？”杰克想。"
"“Are these your tricks upon travelers?","“这些就是你欺骗旅人的伎俩？"
"But I hope to prove as cunning as you are.”","但我会向你证明我和你一样的狡猾。”"
"Then, getting out of bed, he groped about the room, and at last found a large thick billet of wood.","然后，他下了床，在房间里四处摸索了一番，终于找到了一截粗大的木棒。"
"He laid it in his own place in the bed, and then hid himself in a dark corner of the room.","他把它放在自己睡觉的地方，然后自己躲在了房间一个漆黑的角落里。"
"The giant, about midnight, entered the apartment, and with his bludgeon struck many blows on the bed, in the very place where Jack had laid the log; and then he went back to his own room, thinking he had broken all Jack’s bones.","大约午夜时分，巨人走进了房间，抡起他的大头短棒往床上一顿乱捶，正好打在杰克放了木棒的地方；然后他走回了自己房间，想着他已经把杰克的头打得开了花。"
"Early in the morning Jack put a bold face upon the matter, and walked into the giant’s room to thank him for his lodging.","第二天早上，杰克摆出一副对昨晚事情满不在乎的表情，反而走到巨人房间对他的留宿表示感谢。"
"The giant started when he saw him, and began to stammer out: “Oh! dear me; is it you?","巨人见到他吃惊不小，接着开始结结巴巴地说：“哦！我的天哪；是你吗？"
"Pray how did you sleep last night?","请问你昨晚睡得怎么样？"
"Did you hear or see anything in the dead of the night?”","昨天深夜里你有没有听到或看到什么吗？”"
"“Nothing to speak of,” said Jack, carelessly; “a rat, I believe, gave me three or four slaps with its tail, and disturbed me a little; but I soon went to sleep again.”","“没什么特别，”杰克毫不在意地说，“我想，是有只耗子用它的尾巴拍了我三四下，有一点吵到我了；但是我很快又睡着了。”"
"The giant wondered more and more at this; yet he did not answer a word, but went to bring two great bowls of hasty-pudding for their breakfast.","巨人对这事越想越奇怪；然而他一句话也没说，反倒是端来两大碗麦片粥作为他们俩的早餐。"
"Jack wanted to make the giant believe that he could eat as much as himself, so he contrived to button a leathern bag inside his coat, and slip the hasty-pudding into this bag, while he seemed to put it into his mouth.","杰克想让巨人相信他能吃下和巨人一样多的食物，所以他设法在他的外套里系了一个皮革口袋，并把麦片粥倒到了这个皮口袋里，而看上去像是倒进了他的嘴里一样。"
"When breakfast was over he said to the giant: “Now I will show you a fine trick.","当早餐吃完后，他对巨人说：“现在我给你表演个小把戏。"
"I can cure all wounds with a touch; I could cut off my head in one minute, and the next put it sound again on my shoulders.","我只要摸一摸就能治愈所有的伤口；我能在一分钟内砍下我的脑袋，并在下一分钟内将它安回到自己的肩膀上。"
"You shall see an example.”","我展示给你看。”"
"He then took hold of the knife, ripped up the leathern bag, and all the hasty-pudding tumbled out upon the floor.","然后他举起了匕首，割开了那个皮口袋，接着所有的麦片粥都流到了地板上。"
"“Ods splutter hur nails!” cried the Welsh giant, who was ashamed to be outdone by such a little fellow as Jack, “hur can do that hurself”; so he snatched up the knife, plunged it into his own stomach, and in a moment dropped down dead.","“天杀的！”这个威尔士巨人为自己比不上像杰克这样的一个小家伙儿感到羞愧，大声叫喊着，“他竟然真的做到了”；所以他一把抓过匕首，插入了自己的肚子，不多久就倒在地上死掉了。"
"Jack, having hitherto been successful in all his undertakings, resolved not to be idle in future; he therefore furnished himself with a horse, a cap of knowledge, a sword of sharpness, shoes of swiftness, and an invisible coat, the better to perform the wonderful enterprises that lay before him.","到目前为止，杰克在他所有的历险中都大获全胜，他决定从此以后不再游手好闲；所以，他为自己配备了一匹好马，掌握了大量的知识，准备了一把锋利的宝剑，一双行走敏捷的鞋子，一件隐形外套，装备得越齐全，他今后经历的历险就越成功。"
"He traveled over high hills, and on the third day he came to a large and spacious forest through which his road lay.","他爬过一座座高山，第三天时来到一片广袤的森林，一条小路蜿蜒进了林里。"
"Scarcely had he entered the forest when he beheld a monstrous giant dragging along by the hair of their heads a handsome knight and his lady.","他刚一踏进森林就看见一个穷凶极恶的巨人拽着一位英俊的骑士和他的夫人的头发,拖着他们向前走。"
"Jack alighted from his horse, and tying him to an oak tree, put on his invisible coat, under which he carried his sword of sharpness.","杰克从马上下来，躲在一棵橡树背后，穿上他的隐身衣，手里握着那把锋利的宝剑。"
"When he came up to the giant he made several strokes at him, but could not reach his body, but wounded his thighs in several places; and at length, putting both hands to his sword and aiming with all his might, he cut off both his legs.","当他靠近巨人的时候，他给了他几剑，但是都没能碰到他的躯干，但是在他的大腿几处划了几道伤口；终于他双手握住剑柄，使出全身力气瞄准，砍断了巨人的双腿。"
"Then Jack, setting his foot upon his neck, plunged his sword into the giant’s body, when the monster gave a groan and expired.","然后，杰克一脚踩住巨人的脖子，将他的剑刺进了巨人的身体，这时怪物发出一阵呻吟后断了气。"
"The knight and his lady thanked Jack for their deliverance, and invited him to their house, to receive a proper reward for his services.","骑士和他的妻子感谢杰克救了他们，并把他请到了他们的家中，想送给他一些合适的礼物报答他的贡献。"
"“No,” said Jack, “I cannot be easy till I find out this monster’s habitation.”","“不，”杰克说，“不找到那些怪物的老巢我不能放松。”"
"So, taking the knight’s directions, he mounted his horse and soon after came in sight of another giant, who was sitting on a block of timber waiting for his brother’s return.","于是，他顺着骑士指引的方向，骑马而去，没过多久，就看见另一个巨人坐在一大根原木上等他的兄弟回来。"
"Jack alighted from his horse, and, putting on his invisible coat, approached and aimed a blow at the giant’s head, but, missing his aim, he only cut off his nose.","杰克下了马，然后穿上他的隐身衣，走近并瞄准巨人的头给了一击，但是，他没能瞄准目标，只是把鼻子给砍了下来。"
"On this the giant seized his club and laid about him most unmercifully.","受到打击的巨人抓起自己的短棒，毫不留情地四处挥舞着。"
"“Nay,” said Jack, “if this be the case I’d better dispatch you!” so, jumping upon the block, he stabbed him in the back, when he dropped down dead.","“不，”杰克说，“如果这样的话我最好快点解决你！”于是，他跳到圆木上，对准他的背刺了一剑，巨人就这样倒地丧命了。"
"Jack then proceeded on his journey, and traveled over hills and dales, till arriving at the foot of a high mountain he knocked at the door of a lonely house, when an old man let him in.","然后杰克继续他的旅程，他穿山岭越峡谷，直到来到一座高山的脚下。他敲了敲一座孤零零的房子的门，一位老人将他请了进去。"
"When Jack was seated the hermit thus addressed him: “My son, on the top of this mountain is an enchanted castle, kept by the giant Galligantus and a vile magician.","当杰克坐下来这位隐士便对他说：“我的孩子，这座山的顶峰有一座被施了魔法的城堡，被一个叫加利根坦斯的巨人和一个邪恶的魔法师控制着。"
"I lament the fate of a duke’s daughter, whom they seized as she was walking in her father’s garden, and brought hither transformed into a deer.”","伯爵的女儿在他父亲的花园里散步时被他们抓走了，带到了这里把她变成了一只小鹿，我正为她的命运而担忧呢！”"
"Jack promised that in the morning, at the risk of his life, he would break the enchantment; and after a sound sleep he rose early, put on his invisible coat, and got ready for the attempt.","杰克向他保证，明天一早，即使搭上自己的性命，他也要打破这个魔咒；他美美地睡了一觉，隔天一早就起来了，穿上他的隐身衣，为这次的冒险做好准备。"
"When he had climbed to the top of the mountain he saw two fiery griffins, but he passed between them without the least fear of danger, for they could not see him because of his invisible coat.","当他爬到这座山的顶峰，他看见两只喷着火的狮身鹫首的怪兽，但是他毫不畏惧地走过了它们，因为穿着隐身衣，它们根本就看不见他。"
"On the castle gate he found a golden trumpet, under which were written these lines:","在城堡的大门上他发现了一个金喇叭，喇叭的下面写着这样几行字："
"@“Whoever can this trumpet blow@","“谁能吹响喇叭，"
"@Shall cause the giant’s overthrow.”@","谁将推翻巨人。”"
"As soon as Jack had read this he seized the trumpet and blew a shrill blast, which made the gates fly open and the very castle itself tremble.","杰克读到这话立马抓起了喇叭，吹得它发出尖锐的鸣叫声，那声音震得大门大开，城堡摇摇欲坠。"
"The giant and the conjurer now knew that their wicked course was at an end, and they stood biting their thumbs and shaking with fear.","巨人和魔法师知道自己的邪恶道路已经走到尽头了，他们杵在那咬着自己的手指，因为恐惧而瑟瑟发抖。"
"Jack, with his sword of sharpness, soon killed the giant, and the magician was then carried away by a whirlwind; and every knight and beautiful lady who had been changed into birds and beasts returned to their proper shapes.","杰克快速地用他的利剑砍下了巨人的头，随后魔法师也被一阵旋风刮走了；所有被变成小鸟和野兽的骑士和美丽的女士们都变回了原来的样子。"
"The castle vanished away like smoke, and the head of the giant Galligantus was then sent to King Arthur.","城堡像硝烟一样消失了，巨人加利根坦斯的头颅被送到了亚瑟王那里。"
"The knights and ladies rested that night at the old man’s hermitage, and next day they set out for the Court.","骑士和女士们在老人的房子里住宿了一晚，第二天出发回到了皇宫。"
"Jack then went up to the King, and gave his Majesty an account of all his fierce battles.","杰克去面见国王，为他讲述了所有他参与的激烈战斗。"
"Jack’s fame had now spread through the whole country, and at the King’s desire the duke gave him his daughter in marriage, to the joy of all his kingdom.","杰克的声名传遍了整个国家，依照国王的意愿，爵士把他的女儿嫁给了杰克，整个王国都沉浸在欢乐之中。"
"After this the King gave him a large estate, on which he and his lady lived the rest of their days in joy and contentment. ","不久后，国王又送给他一份丰厚的财产，他和他的妻子从此过上了欢乐满足的幸福生活。"

