"书名德国萨根菲尔德的传说（马克·吐温幽默小品文）短简介一个袖珍王国的小国王被占卜家告知，在他十四岁那年会有一种歌声最美的动物将会拯救他的生命，并且使得该国世代国泰民安，国王选择了夜莺作为圣鸟。可是后来，国王摔下陡坡，拯救了他的却是当初备受众人厌恶的一头驴子。《德国萨根菲尔德的传说》以寓言的形式讲述了一个国王如何认识错误，抛弃外表，作出正确选择的故事。长简介很久以前，一个袖珍王国的小国王被占卜家告知，在他十四岁那年会有一种歌声最美的动物将会拯救他的生命。如果那种动物受到尊敬，那么该国世代都会国泰民安。国王命令国中百姓把家中拥有的会唱歌的动物带到王宫大殿来，但他发现很难在这么多迷人的歌声中作出选择。这时候，一个乡村小女孩带来了一头驴，还说这是世间最美的声音，结果她和驴子被赶了出去。国王最后选择了夜莺。一次，国王骑马进森林打猎，却不幸意外摔下陡坡。林中传来夜莺的歌声让摔断腿的国王一次又一次地失望了，最终救了国王的竟是那头叫声难听的驴子。关键字德国萨根菲尔德的传说；马克·吐温；外研社编译组；短篇；幽默；传说；国王；选择作者（美）马克·吐温作者简介马克·吐温（1835—1910），19世纪后期美国批判现实主义文学的杰出代表，美国著名的幽默大师、小说家、作家，及演说家。马克·吐温出身贫寒，从小历经诸多家庭不幸，幼年起就开始打工生涯，但这些都为他以后的文学创作累积了素材。他幽默、机智，擅长写讽刺小说。作品融幽默与讽刺于一体，既富于独特的个人机智与妙语，又不乏深刻的社会洞察与剖析，被誉为文学史上的林肯。书评“美国作家马克·吐温的幽默完全不离常人的淳朴自然。”——林语堂"
"     马克·吐温是雅俗共赏的典范。他的作品，读者不论年龄大小，也不论文化修养高低，都喜欢读。这是因为他一些优秀作品具有众多的层次，又用群众喜闻乐见的幽默形式表现出来。他亦庄亦谐的艺术风格既沟通了他与广大读者之间的渠道，又以丰富的艺术含量进入严肃文学的领域。"
"Legend of Sagenfeld, in Germany","德国萨根菲尔德的传说"
"by Mark Twain","作者：马克·吐温"
"More than a thousand years ago this small district was a kingdom—a little bit of a kingdom, a sort of dainty little toy kingdom, as one might say.","一千多年前，这个小地区曾经是一个王国——可以说多少有点儿王国的样子，几分袖珍玲珑型的王国。"
"It was far removed from the jealousies, strifes, and turmoils of that old warlike day, and so its life was a simple life, its people a gentle and guileless race; it lay always in a deep dream of peace, a soft Sabbath tranquillity; there was no malice, there was no envy, there was no ambition, consequently there were no heart-burnings, there was no unhappiness in the land.","在这个国度里，从来不会有嫉妒，不会有勾心斗角，也不会有旧时战争时期的那种骚乱，因而，这里人民的生活简单朴实，这里人民的性格温和坦率。这个王国永远沉睡在一种和平的梦乡里，永远沉浸在一种安息日般的宁静中。在这片国土上，没有怨恨，没有妒忌，没有野心，所以，便少了抱怨与不满，也没有苦难与不幸。"
"In the course of time the old king died and his little son Hubert came to the throne.","时光飞逝，老国王去世了，他的小儿子休伯特登上了王位。"
"The people’s love for him grew daily; he was so good and so pure and so noble, that by and by his love became a passion, almost a worship.","人民对他的爱与日俱增；因为他非常善良、纯洁和高尚，以至于人民对他的爱渐渐转变成一种狂热的迷恋，几乎成了一种崇拜。"
"Now at his birth the soothsayers had diligently studied the stars and found something written in that shining book to this effect:","话说在小国王出生的时候，占卜家们曾经不辞劳苦地研究过星象，并在那本闪闪发光的预言书上找到了相应的解释，大意如下："
"In Hubert’s fourteenth year a pregnant event will happen; the animal whose singing shall sound sweetest in Hubert’s ear shall save Hubert’s life.","在休伯特十四岁那年，将会发生一件重大的事情：在休伯特听来歌声最甜美的那种动物，将会拯救他的生命。"
"So long as the king and the nation shall honor this animal’s race for this good deed, the ancient dynasty shall not fail of an heir, nor the nation know war or pestilence or poverty.","只要国王和他的国家为那种动物的善举颁发荣誉，这个古老的王朝将世代永存、国泰民安、兴旺发达、永享太平、百病不侵。"
"But beware an erring choice!","但是，可得当心别作错了选择！"
"All through the king’s thirteenth year but one thing was talked of by the soothsayers, the statesmen, the little parliament, and the general people.","在国王十三岁那年，在整整一年的时间里，占卜家、政府官员、小议会议员以及普通百姓，他们都只谈论一件事情。"
"That one thing was this: How is the last sentence of the prophecy to be understood?","那就是：该怎样理解预言中的最后一句话？"
"What goes before seems to mean that the saving animal will choose itself at the proper time; but the closing sentence seems to mean that the king must choose beforehand, and say what singer among the animals pleases him best, and that if he choose wisely the chosen animal will save his life, his dynasty, his people, but that if he should make “an erring choice”—beware!","预言前面的话好像意味着那个将拯救国王生命的动物会在合适的时机自动现身，但结尾部分又仿佛暗示着国王必须事先作出选择，并指明是什么动物的歌声最能让他满意。假如他作出了明智的选择，那个被选择的动物将拯救他的生命、他的王朝以及他的子民，一旦他作出了“错误的选择”——那可得小心了！"
"By the end of the year there were as many opinions about this matter as there had been in the beginning; but a majority of the wise and the simple were agreed that the safest plan would be for the little king to make choice beforehand, and the earlier the better.","到了年底，人们对于此事的看法还是没有统一，还是和年初一样，众说纷纭。但是，这些聪明淳朴的人民中的绝大多数人都认为，最保险的办法还是由年轻的国王提前作出选择，并且越早越好。"
"So an edict was sent forth commanding all persons who owned singing creatures to bring them to the great hall of the palace in the morning of the first day of the new year.","于是，国王下了一道圣旨，命令国中凡是拥有会唱歌的生灵的百姓，必须在新年第一天早上把它们带到王宫大殿来。"
"This command was obeyed.","全国上下无不照办。"
"When everything was in readiness for the trial, the king made his solemn entry with the great officers of the crown, all clothed in their robes of state.","当这次挑选准备就绪之后，国王在朝中重臣们的蜂拥之下，庄严地走进了大殿，这些重臣们都穿着国袍。"
"The king mounted his golden throne and prepared to give judgment.","国王登上他金色的宝座，准备着作出判断。"
"But he presently said:","但他随即说道："
"“These creatures all sing at once; the noise is unendurable; no one can choose in such a turmoil.","“假如所有动物一起开唱，其噪声将难以忍受，没有人能在一片嘈杂声中作出正确的判断。"
"Take them all away, and bring back one at a time.”","把它们都带出去，一次只带一个进来。”"
"This was done.","手下人照办了。"
"One sweet warbler after another charmed the young king’s ear and was removed to make way for another candidate.","一个又一个歌声甜美的动物被带进来，它们用各自美妙的歌声来取悦小国王，然后，又被带出去，为下一位选手腾出场地。"
"The precious minutes slipped by; among so many bewitching songsters he found it hard to choose, and all the harder because the promised penalty for an error was so terrible that it unsettled his judgment and made him afraid to trust his own ears.","宝贵的时间一分一分地溜走，国王发现他很难在这么多迷人的歌声中作出选择，更让他感到棘手的是，万一他作出了错误的选择，后果将十分可怕，这让他怀疑自己的判断力，不敢相信自己的耳朵。"
"He grew nervous and his face showed distress.","他越来越紧张，面露难色。"
"His ministers saw this, for they never took their eyes from him a moment.","他的大臣们看出了这一点，因为他们的眼睛从未离开过国王。"
"Now they began to say in their hearts:","于是，他们开始在心中默念道："
"“He has lost courage—the cool head is gone—he will err—he and his dynasty and his people are doomed!”","“他已失去勇气了，他已不再冷静了；他会犯错误的，他和他的王朝，还有他的子民都在劫难逃了！”"
"At the end of an hour the king sat silent awhile, and then said:","一个小时后，国王静静地坐了一会儿，然后说道："
"“Bring back the linnet.”","“再把红雀带进来。”"
"The linnet trilled forth her jubilant music.","红雀兴高采烈，大展歌喉，歌声动人。"
"In the midst of it the king was about to uplift his scepter in sign of choice, but checked himself and said:","在红雀的歌声中，国王准备举起节杖，作出选择，但他迟疑了，说道："
"“But let us be sure.","“还是让我们再慎重一点儿吧。"
"Bring back the thrush; let them sing together.”","再把画眉也带进来，让它和红雀一起唱唱看。”"
"The thrush was brought, and the two birds poured out their marvels of song together.","画眉被带了进来，它和红雀都各自使出浑身解数，竭尽全力，唱出了最动听的歌声。"
"The king wavered, then his inclination began to settle and strengthen—one could see it in his countenance.","国王犹豫着，然后他有了主意，并下定了决心，这些都写在他的脸上。"
"Hope budded in the hearts of the old ministers, their pulses began to beat quicker, the scepter began to rise slowly, when: There was a hideous interruption!","希望的火苗又开始在老臣们心中蹿动起来，他们开始心跳加速，他们看见节杖被缓缓地举了起来。令人惊骇的是，事情就在这一刻被打断了！"
"It was a sound like this—just at the door:","那是一种这样的声音——就在大门口："
"“Waw...he! waw...he! waw-he!-waw he!-waw-he!”","“噢……哧！噢……哧！——噢——哧！——噢——哧！——噢——哧！”"
"Everybody was sorely startled—and enraged at himself for showing it.","每个人都被狠狠地吓了一跳——但又对自己表现出的惊恐而感到恼火。"
"The next instant the dearest, sweetest, prettiest little peasant-maid of nine years came tripping in, her brown eyes glowing with childish eagerness; but when she saw that august company and those angry faces she stopped and hung her head and put her poor coarse apron to her eyes.","出现在大家眼前的是一个他们见过的最可爱、最甜美、最漂亮的九岁乡村小女孩，她步履轻盈地朝大家走来，褐色的眼睛里流露出小孩子特有的热忱的光芒。但当她看到严肃的人群以及他们脸上恼怒的表情时，她停下脚步，低下头，将她粗糙的围裙拉起来遮住她的眼睛。"
"Nobody gave her welcome, none pitied her.","没有人对她表示欢迎，也没有人可怜她。"
"Presently she looked up timidly through her tears, and said:","过了一会儿，她胆怯地抬起泪汪汪的眼睛，说道："
"“My lord the king, I pray you pardon me, for I meant no wrong.","“国王陛下，我恳请您饶恕我，因为我本没有冒犯您的意思。"
"I have no father and no mother, but I have a goat and a donkey, and they are all in all to me.","我无父无母，但是我有一只山羊和一头驴子，它们就是我的全部。"
"My goat gives me the sweetest milk, and when my dear good donkey brays it seems to me there is no music like to it.","我的山羊能给我最香甜的羊奶喝；而当我听到亲爱的驴子叫的时候，我感觉我听到了世间最美妙的音乐。"
"So when my lord the king’s jester said the sweetest singer among all the animals should save the crown and nation, and moved me to bring him here—”","所以，当国王您的大臣说，在所有动物中歌声最美的动物能够拯救王室，拯救国家的时候，我就想到了我的驴子，于是我把它带了过来——”"
"All the court burst into a rude laugh, and the child fled away crying, without trying to finish her speech.","整个大殿都爆发出一阵无礼的笑声，小女孩哭着冲出了殿堂，连话都还没说完。"
"The chief minister gave a private order that she and her disastrous donkey be flogged beyond the precincts of the palace and commanded to come within them no more.","首席大臣下了一道密令：将她和她那头可恶的驴子赶出王宫，永远不得再踏入半步。"
"Then the trial of the birds was resumed.","接着，挑选的活动继续进行。"
"The two birds sang their best, but the scepter lay motionless in the king’s hand.","红雀和画眉都全力以赴，但是国王手中的节杖却没有动静。"
"Hope died slowly out in the breasts of all.","所有人心中的希望之火都慢慢地熄灭了。"
"An hour went by; two hours, still no decision.","一个小时过去了，两个小时过去了，还是没有结果。"
"The day waned to its close, and the waiting multitudes outside the palace grew crazed with anxiety and apprehension.","傍晚来临，等在王宫外面的人群开始变得焦躁不安起来。"
"The twilight came on, the shadows fell deeper and deeper.","夜幕降临了，影子拉得越来越长。"
"The king and his court could no longer see each other’s faces.","国王和大臣彼此都看不清对方的脸色了。"
"No one spoke—none called for lights.","没有人说话——也没有人下令开灯。"
"The great trial had been made; it had failed; each and all wished to hide their faces from the light and cover up their deep trouble in their own hearts.","大挑选已经进行过了，可是没有结果就等于失败。所有的人都想把他们的脸藏在黑暗里，借以掩饰他们心中深深的忧虑。"
"Finally-hark!","突然——听！"
"A rich, full strain of the divinest melody streamed forth from a remote part of the hall the nightingale’s voice!","一阵圆润饱满、美妙动人的旋律从大殿某个偏僻的角落传来，是夜莺的声音！"
"“Up!” shouted the king, “let all the bells make proclamation to the people, for the choice is made and we have not erred.","“起立！”国王叫道，“敲响所有的钟声，向全国人民宣告，选择已经作出，而且没有出错。"
"King, dynasty, and nation are saved.","国王、王朝和国家都得救了。"
"From henceforth let the nightingale be honored throughout the land forever.","从今往后，夜莺将永远是我们国家的荣誉之鸟。"
"And publish it among all the people that whosoever shall insult a nightingale, or injure it, shall suffer death.","全体百姓，无论是谁，只要谁敢侮辱夜莺，伤害夜莺，都会被判死刑。"
"The king hath spoken.”","国王特此公告。”"
"All that little world was drunk with joy.","那个小世界随即成了一片欢乐的海洋。"
"The castle and the city blazed with bonfires all night long, the people danced and drank and sang; and the triumphant clamor of the bells never ceased.","城堡和城市里彻夜篝火通明，人们跳舞、喝酒、歌唱，胜利的钟声片刻未停。"
"From that day the nightingale was a sacred bird.","从那天起，夜莺成了一种圣鸟。"
"Its song was heard in every house; the poets wrote its praises; the painters painted it; its sculptured image adorned every arch and turret and fountain and public building.","家家户户都能听到夜莺的声音，诗人写诗歌颂它，画家描绘它，它的雕像装饰着每扇拱门、每座塔尖、每处喷泉和每栋公共建筑上。"
"It was even taken into the king’s councils; and no grave matter of state was decided until the soothsayers had laid the thing before the state nightingale and translated to the ministry what it was that the bird had sung about it.","甚至它还被带到了国王的会议上，一切重大国事在作出决定前，都必须由占卜家将国事置于国鸟夜莺之前，然后再把国鸟在歌声中对国事的看法翻译给大臣们听。"
"II","二"
"The young king was very fond of the chase.","年轻的国王爱好打猎。"
"When the summer was come he rode forth with hawk and hound, one day, in a brilliant company of his nobles.","夏日的一天，在一大群贵族的陪伴下，他骑着马，带上猎鹰和猎狗，出去打猎了。"
"He got separated from them by and by, in a great forest, and took what he imagined a neat cut, to find them again; but it was a mistake.","在一片大森林里，他不知不觉与大部队走散了，为了找到他们，他擅自抄了条近道，但他错了。"
"He rode on and on, hopefully at first, but with sinking courage finally.","他骑呀骑，起初还是满怀希望，后来就灰心丧气了。"
"Twilight came on, and still he was plunging through a lonely and unknown land.","夜晚降临，他还在这片荒无人烟的陌生土地上徘徊。"
"Then came a catastrophe.","接着，一场灾难发生了。"
"In the dim light he forced his horse through a tangled thicket overhanging a steep and rocky declivity.","在昏暗的光线里，他让他的马穿过一处枝蔓缠绕的灌木丛，没想到灌木丛尽头却是一个布满乱石的陡坡。"
"When horse and rider reached the bottom, the former had a broken neck and the latter a broken leg.","当他们到达坡底时，马摔断了脖子，国王则摔断了一条腿。"
"The poor little king lay there suffering agonies of pain, and each hour seemed a long month to him.","可怜的小国王就那样躺在地上，疼痛难忍，一个小时对他而言似乎有一个月那么长。"
"He kept his ear strained to heat any sound that might promise hope of rescue; but he heard no voice, no sound of horn or bay of hound.","他专注地竖起耳朵，希望能听到救援的声音。但他听不到说话声，听不到号角声，也听不到狗吠声。"
"So at last he gave up all hope, and said, “Let death come, for come it must.”","所以，到最后他不抱任何希望了，说道：“迟早是一死，让死亡快点儿来吧。”"
"Just then the deep, sweet song of a nightingale swept across the still wastes of the night.","就在这时，夜莺甜美的歌声打破了凄凉夜晚的沉寂。"
"“Saved!” the king said.","“有救了！”国王说道，"
"“Saved!","“有救了！"
"It is the sacred bird, and the prophecy is come true.","是神鸟，是夜莺，预言应验了。"
"The gods themselves protected me from error in the choice.”","上帝保佑我没有作出错误的选择。”"
"He could hardly contain his joy; he could not word his gratitude.","喜悦之情无法抑制；感激之情难以言表。"
"Every few moments, now he thought he caught the sound of approaching succor.","每隔一小会儿，他都觉得自己听到拯救者离自己近了。"
"But each time it was a disappointment; no succor came.","但每一次都让他失望了，根本就没有拯救者前来。"
"The dull hours drifted on.","难熬的时光缓缓流逝。"
"Still no help came—but still the sacred bird sang on.","还是没有什么拯救者——但神鸟还在唱着歌。"
"He began to have misgivings about his choice, but he stifled them.","他开始怀疑当初的选择，但他又努力克制自己不那样想。"
"Toward dawn the bird ceased.","破晓时分，夜莺停止了歌唱。"
"The morning came, and with it thirst and hunger; but no succor.","天亮了，饥渴也随之而来，但就是不见拯救者。"
"The day waxed and waned.","白天过去，又近黄昏。"
"At last the king cursed the nightingale.","最后，国王开始诅咒起夜莺来。"
"Immediately the song of the thrush came from out the wood.","马上，画眉的歌声从树林外传来。"
"The king said in his heart, “This was the true-bird—my choice was false—succor will come now.”","国王在心里呼喊：“它才是真正的神鸟——我当初选错了——这下拯救者该来了。”"
"But it did not come.","但是，所谓的拯救者并没有来。"
"Then he lay many hours insensible.","接下来的几个小时里，他只能神志不清地躺着。"
"When he came to himself, a linnet was singing.","当他清醒过来时，他听见一只红雀正在唱歌。"
"He listened with apathy.","他听着，却毫不动心。"
"His faith was gone.","他不再抱任何幻想，不再抱任何希望。"
"“These birds,” he said, “can bring no help; I and my house and my people are doomed.”","“这些鸟，”他说，“都帮不了我。我和我的王国，还有我的子民都在劫难逃了。”"
"He turned him about to die; for he was grown very feeble from hunger and thirst and suffering, and felt that his end was near.","他翻了个身，等待着死神的降临。因为饥渴和痛苦已经把他折磨得十分虚弱，他感到自己的生命即将走到尽头。"
"In truth, he wanted to die, and be released from pain.","事实上，他宁愿一死了之，以此从痛苦中解脱出来。"
"For long hours he lay without thought or feeling or motion.","他只能这样躺着，没有思想，没有感觉，一躺就是好几个小时。"
"Then his senses returned.","之后，他又清醒过来。"
"The dawn of the third morning was breaking.","一晃到了第三天的黎明时分。"
"Ah, the world seemed very beautiful to those worn eyes.","啊，在这双疲惫的眼睛看来，此刻的世界是多么美丽啊。"
"Suddenly a great longing to live rose up in the lad’s heart, and from his soul welled a deep and fervent prayer that Heaven would have mercy upon him and let him see his home and his friends once more.","突然，小国王心中泛起一股强烈的求生欲望，从他灵魂深处也涌起一阵狂热的祈祷：上天一定会向他洒下慈悲的甘霖，并让他再次与他的家人和朋友团聚。"
"In that instant a soft, a faint, a far-off sound, but oh, how inexpressibly sweet to his waiting ear, came floating out of the distance:","就在那一刹那，一个久违的、轻柔缥缈的声音从遥远的地方飘过来。这个声音对他渴望的耳朵来说，是多么动听啊，无法用言语表达。"
"“Waw...he! waw...he! waw-he!—waw-he!—waw-he!”","“噢……哧！噢……哧！——噢——哧！——噢——哧！——噢——哧！”"
"“That, oh, that song is sweeter, a thousand times sweeter than the voice of the nightingale, thrush, or linnet, for it brings not mere hope, but certainty of succor; and now, indeed, am I saved!","“啊，这个，这个歌声更甜美，这比夜莺、画眉和红雀的歌声要美上一千倍，因为它绝不会仅仅只带来希望，救援肯定也会随之而来。现在，我真的有救了！"
"The sacred singer has chosen itself, as the oracle intended; the prophecy is fulfilled, and my life, my house, and my people are redeemed.","这个神圣的歌手自己选择了自己，正如预言所说的那样：预言应验了，而我的生命、王室和子民都得到了救赎。"
"The ass shall be sacred from this day!”","从今往后，驴子将成为神圣之物！”"
"The divine music grew nearer and nearer, stronger and stronger and ever sweeter and sweeter to the perishing sufferer’s ear.","这神圣的音乐越来越近，越来越强，当然对于饱受煎熬的国王来说，也越来越动听。"
"Down the declivity the docile little donkey wandered, cropping herbage and singing as he went; and when at last he saw the dead horse and the wounded king, he came and snuffed at them with simple and marveling curiosity.","这头温顺的小驴子漫步走下坡，它一边吃着草，还一边唱着歌。最后，它看到了死去的马和受伤的国王，于是，它走过去，天真而好奇地嗅了起来。"
"The king petted him, and he knelt down as had been his wont when his little mistress desired to mount.","国王拍了拍它，它立马跪了下来，就像它的小女主人想骑它时那样。"
"With great labor and pain the lad drew himself upon the creature’s back, and held himself there by aid of the generous ears.","小国王忍着极大的痛苦艰难地爬上了驴子的背，并且抓住驴子的大耳朵使自己不从驴背上掉下来。"
"The ass went singing forth from the place and carried the king to the little peasant-maid’s hut.","驴子驮着国王离开了这个地方，它一路歌唱，把国王带到了那个乡村小姑娘的小屋里。"
"She gave him her pallet for a bed, refreshed him with goat’s milk, and then flew to tell the great news to the first scouting-party of searchers she might meet.","她拿出自己的草垫给国王当床，喂他喝羊奶使他恢复体力，然后飞奔着去把这重大消息告诉她能遇到的第一支搜寻国王的队伍。"
"The king got well.","国王康复了。"
"His first act was to proclaim the sacredness and inviolability of the ass; his second was to add this particular ass to his cabinet and make him chief minister of the crown; his third was to have all the statues and effigies of nightingales throughout his kingdom destroyed, and replaced by statues and effigies of the sacred donkey; and, his fourth was to announce that when the little peasant maid should reach her fifteenth year he would make her his queen and he kept his word.","他做的第一件事就是宣布驴子为神圣之物，不得侵犯；二是把这头神驴纳入内阁，并授予朝廷首席大臣的头衔；三是销毁举国上下夜莺的所有装饰品，并代之以神驴的形象；四是宣告天下，等到小女孩十五岁时，国王将迎娶她为王后——他说到做到了。"
"Such is the legend.","以上就是关于这则传说的全部内容。"
"This explains why the moldering image of the ass adorns all these old crumbling walls and arches; and it explains why, during many centuries, an ass was always the chief minister in that royal cabinet, just as is still the case in most cabinets to this day; and it also explains why, in that little kingdom, during many centuries, all great poems, all great speeches, all great books, all public solemnities, and all royal proclamations, always began with these stirring words:","这就解释了为什么这些古老的建筑物上都是些破碎的驴子形象；也解释了为什么那么多世纪以来，这个王朝的内阁首席大臣总是一头驴子，正如当今许多内阁的情况一样；它还解释了为什么在这个小王国里，多少个世纪以来，所有不朽的诗篇、所有雄辩的演讲、所有权威的著作、所有庄严的仪式和王宫圣旨，都用下面这句振奋人心的话作为开场白："
"“Waw...he! waw...he!—waw he! Waw-he!”","“噢……哧！噢……哧！——噢——哧！——噢——哧！”"

