"书名刎颈之交（欧·亨利经典短篇小说）短简介友谊遭遇了爱情，朋友变成了情敌，现实往往很残酷。爱情与友情并非水火不容，可想皆大欢喜总要付出一点儿代价。故事中，两个男人是多年的挚友，一天在一个火车站旁的小客栈吃饭时，双双为女老板的魅力所倾倒。当得知女老板是寡妇时，两个男人都展开了攻势。夹在真挚友情与纯真爱情间，主人公该如何做，才能将两者都保全呢？长简介友谊遭遇了爱情，朋友变成了情敌，尽管两者并非水火不容，可想做到皆大欢喜也是不易的。欧·亨利的短篇小说《刎颈之交》就讲述了这样一个在友情与爱情间进行两难抉择的故事。两个男人是多年的挚友，一天在一个火车站旁的小客栈吃饭时，双双为女老板的魅力所倾倒。当得知女老板是寡妇时，两个男人都展开了攻势。为了不伤害友谊，他们商定公平竞争，即求爱时谁也不可以单独行事，必须两人同时在场。两人都信守诺言。一个最终赢得了寡妇的芳心，但他仍对朋友忠心耿耿，洞房花烛夜仍习惯地坐在门外等着他的朋友。这可惹怒了新娘，她一气之下用扫帚打过去，竟使新郎失去一只耳朵。关键字刎颈之交；欧·亨利；外研社编译组；短篇；幽默；友情；爱情作者（美）欧·亨利作者简介欧·亨利，原名威廉·西德尼·波特。美国著名批判现实主义作家，世界三大短篇小说大师之一。曾被评论界誉为曼哈顿桂冠散文作家和美国现代短篇小说之父。欧·亨利善于描写美国社会尤其是纽约百姓的生活，其作品构思新颖，语言诙谐，结局往往出人意料，又因描写了众多人物，富于生活情趣，被誉为“美国生活的幽默百科全书”。书评友谊遭遇了爱情，朋友变成了情敌，这是一个在友情与爱情间进行两难抉择的故事。爱情与友情并非针锋相对水火不容，可要想做到恰到好处也是不易的，想皆大欢喜总要付出一点儿代价。"
"Telemachus, friend","刎颈之交"
"by O. Henry","作者：欧·亨利"
"Returning from a hunting trip, I waited at the little town of Los Pinos, in New Mexico, for the south-bound train, which was one hour late.","我狩猎回来，在新墨西哥州的洛斯皮诺斯小镇等南下的火车。列车晚点了一个小时。"
"I sat on the porch of the Summit House and discussed the functions of life with Telemachus Hicks, the hotel proprietor.","我坐在“顶峰”旅馆的门廊处，与旅馆老板忒勒玛科斯·希克斯聊起了生活的意义。"
"Perceiving that personalities were not out of order, I asked him what species of beast had long ago twisted and mutilated his left ear.","我觉得他性情不算暴躁，便问他是哪种野兽在很久以前扭残了他的左耳。"
"Being a hunter, I was concerned in the evils that may befall one in the pursuit of game.","作为猎人，我很关心在狩猎过程中可能会遭遇的不幸。"
"“That ear,” says Hicks, “is the relic of true friendship.”","“那只耳朵啊，”希克斯说，“是真正的友情的纪念品。”"
"“An accident?”","“一次意外吗？”"
"I persisted.","我追问道。"
"“No friendship is an accident,” said Telemachus; and I was silent.","“友情的世界里没有意外。”忒勒玛科斯说。我沉默了。"
"“The only perfect case of true friendship I ever knew,” went on my host, “was a cordial intent between a Connecticut man and a monkey.","“我所知道的真正友情的唯一完美例证，”旅馆老板继续说道，“是一位康涅狄格州人和一只猴子之间的那种热忱。"
"The monkey climbed palms in Barranquilla and threw down cocoanuts to the man.","猴子爬上巴兰基亚的棕榈树，把椰子扔下来给那个人。"
"The man sawed them in two and made dippers, which he sold for two reales each and bought rum.","那个人把椰子锯成两半，做成长柄勺，每只长柄勺卖两个雷阿尔，然后他就拿钱买朗姆酒。"
"The monkey drank the milk of the nuts.","那只猴子则喝到了椰子汁。"
"Through each being satisfied with his own share of the graft, they lived like brothers.","自始至终，他们各自满足于自己在这项工作中的所劳所得，像兄弟一样和睦生活。"
"“But in the case of human beings, friendship is a transitory art, subject to discontinuance without further notice.","“可对于人类，友情是一门转瞬即逝的艺术，可能没有另行通知便中止了。"
"“I had a friend once, of the entitlement of Paisley Fish, that I imagined was sealed to me for an endless space of time.","“以前我有一个朋友名叫佩斯利·菲什，我曾以为我俩之间的友情是天长地久的。"
"Side by side for seven years we had mined, ranched, sold patent churns, herded sheep, took photographs and other things, built wire fences, and picked prunes.","我们相处了七年，一起挖矿、经营农场、卖专利搅乳器、放羊、拍照等，还一起建铁丝网、摘西梅。"
"Thinks I, neither homocide nor flattery nor riches nor sophistry nor drink can make trouble between me and Paisley Fish.","我曾觉得，凶杀、谄媚、钱财、诡辩和美酒都离间不了我和佩斯利·菲什。"
"We was friends an amount you could hardly guess at.","我们的友情深厚得你简直无法想象。"
"We was friends in business, and we let our amicable qualities lap over and season our hours of recreation and folly.","我们是事业伙伴，而且我们还把这种友好的关系延伸了，为休闲娱乐的时光也增添了很多趣味。"
"We certainly had days of Damon and nights of Pythias.","我们真的拥有好比戴蒙和皮西厄斯一样的日日夜夜。"
"“One summer me and Paisley gallops down into these San Andres mountains for the purpose of a month’s surcease and levity, dressed in the natural store habiliments of man.","“一年夏天，我和佩斯利穿戴得舒适整齐，一起骑马飞奔到圣安德烈斯山区，休息一个月，到处玩一玩。"
"We hit this town of Los Pinos, which certainly was a roof-garden spot of the world, and flowing with condensed milk and honey.","我们来到了洛斯皮诺斯这个小镇，这里真可算作是世界的屋顶花园、流奶与蜜之地。"
"It had a street or two, and air, and hens, and a eating-house; and that was enough for us.","这里有一两条街、新鲜空气、母鸡和小吃店，对于我们来说这已经足够了。"
"“We strikes the town after supper-time, and we concludes to sample whatever efficacy there is in this eating-house down by the railroad tracks.","“晚饭时间过了之后，我们才来到镇上，便决定随便尝尝铁路旁边这家小吃店的东西。"
"By the time we had set down and pried up our plates with a knife from the red oil-cloth, along intrudes Widow Jessup with the hot biscuit and the fried liver.","就在我们刚坐下，用刀子把粘在红油布上的盘子撬起来的时候，寡妇杰瑟普端着热点心和炸肝走了进来。"
"“Now, there was a woman that would have tempted an anchovy to forget his vows.","“啊，那是一个让鳀鱼都会忘了它的誓愿的女人。"
"She was not so small as she was large; and a kind of welcome air seemed to mitigate her vicinity.","她不胖不瘦、不高不矮、和蔼可亲、气场柔和。"
"The pink of her face was the in hoc signo of a culinary temper and a warm disposition, and her smile would have brought out the dogwood blossoms in December.","红润的脸颊是她乐于烹饪、性情温和的标志，她的笑容简直能让十二月的山茱萸开出花来。"
"“Widow Jessup talks to us a lot of garrulousness about the climate and history and Tennyson and prunes and the scarcity of mutton, and finally wants to know where we came from.","“寡妇杰瑟普和我们东拉西扯了很多，罗嗦了一堆天气、历史、丁尼生和梅干的话题，还说到了羊肉的稀缺，最后才想知道我们是从哪里来的。"
"“‘Spring Valley,’ says I.","“‘春谷。’我说。"
"“‘Big Spring Valley,’ chips in Paisley, out of a lot of potatoes and knuckle-bone of ham in his mouth.","“‘大春谷。’佩斯利插了句话，嘴里塞满了土豆和火腿骨头。"
"“That was the first sign I noticed that the old fidus Diogenes business between me and Paisley Fish was ended forever.","“那是我注意到的第一个我和佩斯利·菲什的忠诚友谊永远结束了的标志。"
"He knew how I hated a talkative person, and yet he stampedes into the conversation with his amendments and addendums of syntax.","他知道我有多讨厌多嘴多舌的人，可他还是贸然地插话，还附带了句法上的修正和补充。"
"On the map it was Big Spring Valley; but I had heard Paisley himself call it Spring Valley a thousand times.","它在地图上的确是大春谷，可我听佩斯利叫它春谷已不下千遍了。"
"“Without saying any more, we went out after supper and set on the railroad track.","“没有多说什么话，晚饭后我们就出了门，坐在了铁轨上。"
"We had been pardners too long not to know what was going on in each other’s mind.","我们已经做了很久朋友了，不可能不知道对方在想什么。"
"“‘I reckon you understand,’ says Paisley, ‘that I’ve made up my mind to accrue that widow woman as part and parcel in and to my hereditaments forever, both domestic, sociable, legal, and otherwise, until death us do part.’","“‘我猜你明白的，’佩斯利说，‘我已下定决心，要把那个寡妇纳入我的财产中，永远作为我的财产的不可或缺的一部分，不论是在家庭、社会、法律还是其他方面，直到死为止。’"
"“‘Why, yes,’ says I, ‘I read it between the lines, though you only spoke one.","“‘怎么不明白，当然明白，’我说，‘我听出了弦外之音，尽管你只说了一句话。"
"And I suppose you are aware,’ says I, ‘that I have a movement on foot that leads up to the widow’s changing her name to Hicks, and leaves you writing to the society column to inquire whether the best man wears a japonica or seamless socks at the wedding!’","不过我想你也该知道了，’我说，‘我准备一步步地行动，让那个寡妇改姓希克斯；至于你呢，就等着写信给社会专栏，询问婚礼上男傧相是否插了山茶花或穿了无缝袜子吧！’"
"“‘There’ll be some hiatuses in your program,’ says Paisley, chewing up a piece of a railroad tie.","“‘你的计划有漏洞。’佩斯利说道，嘴里嚼着一片铁路枕木屑，"
"‘I’d give in to you,’ says he, ‘in ’most any respect if it was secular affairs, but this is not so.","‘在绝大多数俗事上，我都能让着你，’他说道，‘但这件事不行。"
"The smiles of woman,’ goes on Paisley, ‘is the whirlpool of Squills and Chalybeates, into which vortex the good ship Friendship is often drawn and dismembered.","女人的笑容，’佩斯利继续说道，‘是危险的漩涡，坚固的友谊之船遇到这样的漩涡，总是要沉没、碎裂。"
"I’d assault a bear that was annoying you,’ says Paisley, ‘or I’d endorse your note, or rub the place between your shoulder-blades with opodeldoc the same as ever; but there my sense of etiquette ceases.","我会攻击一只招惹你的熊，’佩斯利说，‘或为你开出的钞票签字担保，或者像以前一样，用肥皂樟脑涂剂给你擦背。可是这件事，我就不再客气了。"
"In this fracas with Mrs. Jessup we play it alone.","在与杰瑟普太太交往这件事上，我们各自为战。"
"I’ve notified you fair.’","我已经跟你说清了。’"
"“And then I collaborates with myself, and offers the following resolutions and by-laws:","“于是我自己思量了一番，得出以下决定和细则："
"“‘Friendship between man and man,’ says I, ‘is an ancient historical virtue enacted in the days when men had to protect each other against lizards with eighty-foot tails and flying turtles.","“‘男人之间的友谊，’我说，‘是一种古老的历史性的美德，在男人们不得不共同对抗长着八十英尺长的尾巴的蜥蜴和会飞的海龟的那个年代，这种美德便建立起来了。"
"And they’ve kept up the habit to this day, and stand by each other till the bellboy comes up and tells them the animals are not really there.","他们把这种习惯一直保持到今天，互相扶持着，直到侍者出现并告诉他们那些动物并不是真的存在。"
"I’ve often heard,’ I says, ‘about ladies stepping in and breaking up a friendship between men.","我经常听说，’我说道，‘女人掺和进来，便割裂了男人之间的友谊。"
"Why should that be?","为什么会那样呢？"
"I’ll tell you, Paisley, the first sight and hot biscuit of Mrs. Jessup appears to have inserted a oscillation into each of our bosoms.","我来告诉你吧，佩斯利，看到杰瑟普太太的第一眼，还有她的热点心，似乎使我们两个人的内心都荡漾起来了。"
"Let the best man of us have her.","让我们当中最优秀的那个人拥有她吧。"
"I’ll play you a square game, and won’t do any underhanded work.","我要和你公平竞争，不会搞任何小动作。"
"I’ll do all of my courting of her in your presence, so you will have an equal opportunity.","我对她献殷勤的一举一动都会当着你的面，因此，你也会有同样的机会。"
"With that arrangement I don’t see why our steamboat of friendship should fall overboard in the medicinal whirlpools you speak of, whichever of us wins out.’","这样安排的话，不管我们哪一个人胜出，我想我们的友谊之船怎么也不会在你所说的充满药水味的漩涡里翻船了。’"
"“‘Good old hoss!’ says Paisley, shaking my hand.","“‘够朋友！’佩斯利说道，并与我握了握手，"
"‘And I’ll do the same,’ says he.","‘我也将这样做。’他说。"
"‘We’ll court the lady synonymously, and without any of the prudery and bloodshed usual to such occasions.","‘我们将同时追求那位太太，而且会避免任何通常在这种情况下会发生的假正经行为和流血冲突事件。"
"And we’ll be friends still, win or lose.’","我们仍会是朋友，无论谁输谁赢。’"
"“At one side of Mrs. Jessup’s eating-house was a bench under some trees where she used to sit in the breeze after the south-bound had been fed and gone.","“杰瑟普太太的小吃店一旁有几棵树，树下放着一个长凳。南下的乘客吃过饭走了之后，她经常坐在这里乘凉。"
"And there me and Paisley used to congregate after supper and make partial payments on our respects to the lady of our choice.","我和佩斯利常常在晚饭后聚在那里，分别向我们相中的这位太太大献殷勤。"
"And we was so honorable and circuitous in our calls that if one of us got there first we waited for the other before beginning any gallivantery.","我们在追求中表现得如此高尚和间接，以至于如果一个人先到那里的话，就会一直等到另一个人也到了之后才展开追求攻势。"
"“The first evening that Mrs. Jessup knew about our arrangement I got to the bench before Paisley did.","“在杰瑟普太太知道我们的安排之后的第一个夜晚，我比佩斯利先到长凳那里。"
"Supper was just over, and Mrs. Jessup was out there with a fresh pink dress on, and almost cool enough to handle.","晚饭刚过，杰瑟普太太正坐在那里。她穿着一件鲜粉色的衣服，并且已经凉快得差不多了。"
"“I sat down by her and made a few specifications about the moral surface of nature as set forth by the landscape and the contiguous perspective.","“我在她身旁坐下，详述了一些通过近景和远景所呈现出的自然界的景观。"
"That evening was surely a case in point.","那天晚上真的是一个典型的例子。"
"The moon was attending to business in the section of sky where it belonged, and the trees was making shadows on the ground according to science and nature, and there was a kind of conspicuous hullabaloo going on in the bushes between the bullbats and the orioles and the jack-rabbits and other feathered insects of the forest.","月亮升到天空中它应有的位置上来凑趣；树木根据科学和自然原理，在地上洒下它们的影子；灌木丛中，引人注意的喧闹声此起彼伏，那是夜莺、金莺、长耳兔和树林中其他长羽毛的昆虫的叫声。"
"And the wind out of the mountains was singing like a Jew’s-harp in the pile of old tomato-cans by the railroad track.","山上吹过来的风像单簧口琴一样吟唱着，从铁轨边的旧番茄酱罐头堆吹过。"
"“I felt a kind of sensation in my left side—something like dough rising in a crock by the fire.","“我感我的左侧有一些什么——就像火炉旁瓦罐里正在发酵的面团。"
"Mrs. Jessup had moved up closer.","杰瑟普太太挪近了点儿。"
"“‘Oh, Mr. Hicks,’ says she, ‘when one is alone in the world, don’t they feel it more aggravated on a beautiful night like this?’","“‘哦，希克斯先生，’她说，‘一个人在这世上孤苦伶仃，在这样美丽的夜晚会不会感觉更加寂寞呢？’"
"“I rose up off the bench at once.","“我马上从长凳上站了起来。"
"“‘Excuse me, ma’am,’ says I, ‘but I’ll have to wait till Paisley comes before I can give a audible hearing to leading questions like that.’","“‘不好意思，夫人，’我说，‘我得等到佩斯利来了，再公开回答像这样的富有诱导性的问题。’"
"“And then I explained to her how we was friends cinctured by years of embarrassment and travel and complicity, and how we had agreed to take no advantage of each other in any of the more mushy walks of life, such as might be fomented by sentiment and proximity.","“接着，我向她解释道，我们是老朋友，多年来共历磨难、游走四方、携手同谋；我们已经商量好了，在生活的任何纠结不清阶段，比如受到感情上的刺激和近水楼台的驱使，我们都不会钻对方的空子。"
"Mrs. Jessup appears to think serious about the matter for a minute, and then she breaks into a species of laughter that makes the wildwood resound.","杰瑟普太太似乎很认真地思考了一下这个问题，接着，她突然大笑起来，笑声在林子里回响。"
"“In a few minutes Paisley drops around, with oil of bergamot on his hair, and sits on the other side of Mrs. Jessup, and inaugurates a sad tale of adventure in which him and Pieface Lumley has a skinning-match of dead cows in ’95 for a silver-mounted saddle in the Santa Rita valley during the nine months’ drought.","“不一会儿，佩斯利来了，头上抹着香柠檬油，坐在了杰瑟普太太的另一边，开始讲起一段悲惨的冒险故事：一八九五年，圣丽塔山大旱，他和扁脸拉姆利为了一只镶银的马鞍比赛剥死牛的皮。"
"“Now, from the start of that courtship I had Paisley Fish hobbled and tied to a post.","“在求爱的一开始，我就击败了佩斯利·菲什，让他手足无措。"
"Each one of us had a different system of reaching out for the easy places in the female heart.","我们俩各有一套到达女人内心柔弱之处的方法。"
"Paisley’s scheme was to petrify ’em with wonderful relations of events that he had either come across personally or in large print.","佩斯利的方法是用一些他亲身经历的或从通俗读物上看来的惊险故事来吓唬女人。"
"I think he must have got his idea of subjugation from one of Shakespeare’s shows I see once called ‘Othello.’ ","我想他一定是从莎士比亚的一出叫《奥赛罗》的剧得到的征服女人心的主意，我以前看过的。"
"There is a coloured man in it who acquires a duke’s daughter by disbursing to her a mixture of the talk turned out by Rider Haggard, Lew Dockstader, and Dr. Parkhurst.","一个黑人把赖德·哈格德、卢·多克斯塔德和帕克赫斯特博士三个人的话混合在一起，讲给公爵的女儿听，并俘获了她的芳心。"
"But that style of courting don’t work well off the stage.","但这种追求方式在舞台之外并不怎么见效。"
"“Now, I give you my own recipe for inveigling a woman into that state of affairs when she can be referred to as ‘nee Jones.’ ","“现在，我跟你说我自己迷倒女人的秘诀，从而让人们用‘娘家姓琼斯’来称呼她。"
"Learn how to pick up her hand and hold it, and she’s yours.","要学会怎么拉起她的手和握住她的手，然后，她就是你的了。"
"It ain’t so easy.","这并不是那么容易的。"
"Some men grab at it so much like they was going to set a dislocation of the shoulder that you can smell the arnica and hear ’em tearing off bandages.","一些人抓得太狠，像是要把肩膀拉脱臼，你简直可以闻到山金车酊剂的味道，听到他们撕绷带的声音。"
"Some take it up like a hot horseshoe, and hold it off at arm’s length like a druggist pouring tincture of asafoetida in a bottle.","一些人像拿热马蹄铁一样拿着它，胳膊伸得远远的，像药剂师把阿魏酊灌到瓶子时的样子。"
"And most of ’em catch hold of it and drag it right out before the lady’s eyes like a boy finding a baseball in the grass, without giving her a chance to forget that the hand is growing on the end of her arm.","大多数人握着它，把它拉到她眼皮底下，像小男孩在草丛里搜寻棒球一样，没有给女人机会忘记手长在她的胳膊上。"
"Them ways are all wrong.","这些方法都错了。"
"“I’ll tell you the right way.","“我来告诉你正确的方法吧。"
"Did you ever see a man sneak out in the back yard and pick up a rock to throw at a tomcat that was sitting on a fence looking at him?","你有没有见过一个人偷偷溜到后院，捡起一块石头，准备向一只坐在篱笆上盯着他的公猫砸过去？"
"He pretends he hasn’t got a thing in his hand, and that the cat don’t see him, and that he don’t see the cat.","他假装手中没有东西，假装猫没有看他，还假装他没看猫。"
"That’s the idea.","就是这样。"
"Never drag her hand out where she’ll have to take notice of it.","一定不要把她的手拉到她一定注意得到的地方。"
"Don’t let her know that you think she knows you have the least idea she is aware you are holding her hand.","她知道你握着她的手，你也清楚她是知道的，但不要让她知道你猜到了她的心思。"
"That was my rule of tactics; and as far as Paisley’s serenade about hostilities and misadventure went, he might as well have been reading to her a time-table of the Sunday trains that stop at Ocean Grove, New Jersey.","这就是我的策略。至于佩斯利有关战争和灾难的情歌嘛，他倒不如给她读在新泽西州欧申格罗夫停车的周日列车时刻表。"
"“One night when I beat Paisley to the bench by one pipeful, my friendship gets subsidised for a minute, and I asks Mrs. Jessup if she didn’t think a ‘H’ was easier to write than a ‘J.’ ","“一天晚上，我比佩斯利早一袋烟的时间来到长凳那里。我的友谊一时经不住诱惑，我竟向杰瑟普太太问起，她觉不觉得‘希’比‘杰’要好写一些。"
"In a second her head was mashing the oleander flower in my button-hole, and I leaned over and—but I didn’t.","突然间，她的脑袋压坏了我纽扣孔上的夹竹桃花，我也向她倾过去——但是我停住了。"
"“‘If you don’t mind,’ says I, standing up, ‘we’ll wait for Paisley to come before finishing this.","“‘如果你不介意，’我站起来说道，‘等到佩斯利来了我们再完成这个吧。"
"I’ve never done anything dishonourable yet to our friendship, and this won’t be quite fair.’","我还从没有做过任何玷污我们友情的事，而这样做不够公平。’"
"“‘Mr. Hicks,’ says Mrs. Jessup, looking at me peculiar in the dark, ‘if it wasn’t for but one thing, I’d ask you to hike yourself down the gulch and never disresume your visits to my house.’","“‘希克斯先生，’杰瑟普太太在黑暗中异样地看着我说，‘如果不是因为那唯一的原因，我就请你走下山谷去，永远不许你再来我家。’"
"“‘And what is that, ma’am?’ I asks.","“‘那么，那是什么呢，夫人？’我问。"
"“‘You are too good a friend not to make a good husband,’ says she.","“‘你是这样一位好的朋友，当然也会是一位好丈夫。’她说道。"
"“In five minutes Paisley was on his side of Mrs. Jessup.","“五分钟以后，佩斯利坐在了杰瑟普太太的那一边。"
"“‘In Silver City, in the summer of ’98,’ he begins, ‘I see Jim Batholomew chew off a Chinaman’s ear in the Blue Light Saloon on account of a crossbarred muslin shirt that—what was that noise?’","“‘一八九八年的夏天，在银城，’他开始讲道，‘我看到吉姆·巴塞洛缪在蓝光沙龙咬掉了一个中国佬的耳朵，就为了一件横条花纹的平纹细布衬衣——什么声音？’"
"“I had resumed matters again with Mrs. Jessup right where we had left off.","“我和杰瑟普太太继续做起刚才没有做完的事情。"
"“‘Mrs. Jessup,’ says I, ‘has promised to make it Hicks.","“‘杰瑟普太太’我说道，‘已经决定姓希克斯了。"
"And this is another of the same sort.’","这是同一件事的另一种表示。’"
"“Paisley winds his feet round a leg of the bench and kind of groans.","“佩斯利把两只脚绕在长凳的一条腿上，叹息起来。"
"“‘Lem,’ says he, ‘we been friends for seven years.","“‘莱姆，’他说，‘我们做了七年朋友了。"
"Would you mind not kissing Mrs. Jessup quite so loud?","你能不能和杰瑟普太太不吻这么响？"
"I’d do the same for you.’","我也会为你做同样的事的。’"
"“‘All right,’ says I.","“‘好的，’我说，"
"‘The other kind will do as well.’","‘用另外一种方式也是可以的。’"
"“‘This Chinaman,’ goes on Paisley, ‘was the one that shot a man named Mullins in the spring of ’97, and that was—’","“‘这个中国佬，’佩斯利继续讲道，‘就是那个家伙在一八九七年春天枪杀了一个叫马林斯的人，那是——’"
"“Paisley interrupted himself again.","“佩斯利又打断了他自己。"
"“‘Lem,’ says he, ‘if you was a true friend you wouldn’t hug Mrs. Jessup quite so hard.","“‘莱姆，’他说道，‘要是你是个真正的朋友，你就不会把杰瑟普太太抱得那么紧。"
"I felt the bench shake all over just then.","我刚才感觉整个长凳都在晃动了。"
"You know you told me you would give me an even chance as long as there was any.’","你知道，你跟我说过的，只要有可能，你就会给我平等的机会的。’"
"“‘Mr. Man,’ says Mrs. Jessup, turning around to Paisley, ‘if you was to drop in to the celebration of mine and Mr. Hicks’s silver wedding, twenty-five years from now, do you think you could get it into that Hubbard squash you call your head that you are nix cum rous in this business?","“‘这位先生，’杰瑟普太太转向佩斯利，说道，‘二十五年之后，你要是顺便来参加我和希克斯先生的银婚庆典，你那个南瓜脑袋还以为在这件事上有希望吗？"
"I’ve put up with you a long time because you was Mr. Hicks’s friend; but it seems to me it’s time for you to wear the willow and trot off down the hill.’","因为你是希克斯先生的朋友，我才忍了你很久，但现在对我来说，该是你死了心，跑下山去的时候了。’"
"“‘Mrs. Jessup,’ says I, without losing my grasp on the situation as fiance, ‘Mr. Paisley is my friend, and I offered him a square deal and a equal opportunity as long as there was a chance.’","“‘杰瑟普太太，’我说道，并没有丧失作为未婚夫的立场，‘佩斯利先生是我的朋友，只要有机会，我都会向他提供公平的交易和平等的机会。’"
"“‘A chance!’ says she.","“‘机会！’她说，"
"‘Well, he may think he has a chance; but I hope he won’t think he’s got a cinch, after what he’s been next to all the evening.’","‘好啊，可能他以为他有机会，但在看过今天整晚在他旁边发生的事之后，我希望他不要自以为很有把握。’"
"“Well, a month afterwards me and Mrs. Jessup was married in the Los Pinos Methodist Church; and the whole town closed up to see the performance.","“一个月以后，我和杰瑟普太太在洛斯皮诺斯的卫理公会教堂举行了婚礼，全镇的人都关门歇业来观看婚礼仪式。"
"“When we lined up in front and the preacher was beginning to sing out his rituals and observances, I looks around and misses Paisley.","“我们并排站在最前面。牧师开始主持仪式时，我环顾四周，没有看到佩斯利。"
"I calls time on the preacher.","我请牧师等一下。"
"‘Paisley ain’t here,’ says I.","‘佩斯利不在这儿，’我说，"
"‘We’ve got to wait for Paisley.","‘我们得等佩斯利。"
"A friend once, a friend always—that’s Telemachus Hicks,’ says I.","一旦做了朋友就永远是朋友——这就是忒勒玛科斯·希克斯。’我说。"
"Mrs. Jessup’s eyes snapped some; but the preacher holds up the incantations according to instructions.","杰瑟普太太的眼睛里泛着些怒光，但牧师按照我的指示，延迟诵读经文。"
"“In a few minutes Paisley gallops up the aisle, putting on a cuff as he comes.","“不一会儿，佩斯利飞奔在过道上，还扣着袖口。"
"He explains that the only dry-goods store in town was closed for the wedding, and he couldn’t get the kind of a boiled shirt that his taste called for until he had broke open the back window of the store and helped himself.","他解释说，镇上唯一卖成衣的店铺因为来看婚礼关了门，他找不到符合他品位的那种上过浆的衬衣，最后只能撬开后窗自己拿了一件。"
"Then he ranges up on the other side of the bride, and the wedding goes on.","然后，他站在了新娘一边，婚礼继续进行了。"
"I always imagined that Paisley calculated as a last chance that the preacher might marry him to the widow by mistake.","我一直觉得，佩斯利还在算计着最后一个机会，那就是牧师一出错，可能会宣布是他和寡妇结婚呢。"
"“After the proceedings was over we had tea and jerked antelope and canned apricots, and then the populace hiked itself away.","“婚礼过程都进行完以后，大家喝了茶，吃了羚羊肉干和杏罐头，然后就都散去了。"
"Last of all Paisley shook me by the hand and told me I’d acted square and on the level with him and he was proud to call me a friend.","佩斯利是最后一个与我握手的。他说我作风正派，对他平等相待，他很自豪能有我这个朋友。"
"“The preacher had a small house on the side of the street that he’d fixed up to rent; and he allowed me and Mrs. Hicks to occupy it till the ten-forty train the next morning, when we was going on a bridal tour to El Paso.","“牧师在街道边有一座小房子，专门用来出租。他让我和希克斯太太使用到第二天早上十点四十分的火车到来，到时我们会乘车去埃尔帕索度蜜月。"
"His wife had decorated it all up with hollyhocks and poison ivy, and it looked real festal and bowery.","他太太用蜀葵和毒藤装扮了整个屋子，看起来真的很有节日气氛，像个凉亭似的。"
"“About ten o’clock that night I sets down in the front door and pulls off my boots a while in the cool breeze, while Mrs. Hicks was fixing around in the room.","“那天晚上，大约十点左右，我坐在大门口，脱下靴子吹了会儿凉爽的风，而希克斯太太在屋里张罗着。"
"Right soon the light went out inside; and I sat there a while reverberating over old times and scenes.","不一会儿，里面的灯灭了，而我坐在那里回想着过去的美好时光和场景。"
"And then I heard Mrs. Hicks call out, ‘Ain’t you coming in soon, Lem?’","就在这时，我听到希克斯太太大声喊道：‘莱姆，你不赶快进来吗？’"
"“‘Well, well!’ says I, kind of rousing up.","“‘好的，好的！’我说道，有点儿被惊醒似的，"
"‘Durn me if I wasn’t waiting for old Paisley to—’","‘要是我不等老佩斯利，就坏事了——’"
"“But when I got that far,” concluded Telemachus Hicks, “I thought somebody had shot this left ear of mine off with a forty-five.","“可刚说到这儿，”忒勒玛科斯·希克斯最后说，“我以为有人用四五口径的手枪击中了我的这个左耳。"
"But it turned out to be only a lick from a broomhandle in the hands of Mrs. Hicks.”","后来我才发现，原来我只是被希克斯太太手中的扫把棒揍了一下。”"

