"书名一座新比彻教堂（马克·吐温幽默小品文）短简介在纽约的埃尔迈拉有个比彻牧师，他计划筹建一座独树一帜的“奇特”的教堂，意在把地方教会打造成一个集社会福利、娱乐和教育为一体的社区中心。《一座新比彻教堂》以一个记者的视角详细阐述了新比彻教堂的构建计划。长简介马克·吐温的短篇小说《一座新比彻教堂》更像是一篇发表在报纸上的新闻特稿。全文以一个记者的视角向读者详细介绍了比彻牧师宏伟的新教堂计划。比彻牧师计划在埃尔迈拉教区建一座从构造到风格都很“奇特”的教堂，它将不只是人们周日做礼拜的地方，也会是孩子们学习和玩耍、大人们平日聚会的另一个“家”，更是贫苦患病者的避风港。最神奇的是，这座教堂单凭教会内的匿名募捐就筹到了全部经费！这一切都让人啧啧称奇……关键字一座新比彻教堂；马克·吐温；外研社编译组；短篇；幽默；报纸；杜撰作者（美）马克·吐温作者简介马克•吐温（1835—1910），19世纪后期美国批判现实主义文学的杰出代表，美国著名的幽默大师、小说家、作家，及演说家。马克•吐温出身贫寒，从小历经诸多家庭不幸，幼年起就开始打工生涯，但这些都为他以后的文学创作累积了素材。他幽默、机智，擅长写讽刺小说。作品融幽默与讽刺于一体，既富于独特的个人机智与妙语，又不乏深刻的社会洞察与剖析，被誉为文学史上的林肯。书评“我喜欢马克·吐温——谁会不喜欢他呢？即使是上帝，亦会钟爱他，赋予其智慧，并于其心灵里绘画出一道爱与信仰的彩虹。”——海伦·凯勒      比彻牧师的杰作——马克·吐温笔下的一座突破传统的教堂。"
"A New Beecher Church ","一座新比彻教堂"
"by Mark Twain","作者：马克·吐温 "
"If Rev. Mr. Smith, or Rev. Mr. Jones, or Rev. Mr. Brown, were about to build a new church edifice it would be projected on the same old pattern, and be like pretty much all the other churches in the country, and so I would naturally mention it as a new Presbyterian Church, or a new Methodist, or a new Baptist Church, and never think of calling it by the pastor’s name; but when a Beecher projects a church, that edifice is necessarily going to be something entirely fresh and original.","如果史密斯牧师，或琼斯牧师，抑或布朗牧师要修建一座新教堂，那么他们计划要建的将是旧式的教堂，并且与国内其他教堂没什么差别。因此我会自然而然地称其为一座新的长老会教堂或新的卫理公会教堂抑或新的浸礼会教堂，却绝不会想到以牧师的名字来称呼它。然而如果一位比彻牧师来修建教堂，这座建筑就必定新颖别致、别出心裁。"
"It is not going to be like any other church in the world; marked with as peculiar and striking an individuality as a Beecher himself; it is going to have a deal more Beecher in it than any one narrow creed can fit in it without rattling, or any one arbitrary order or architecture can symmetrically enclose and cover.","这座教堂将不同于世界上其他任何一座教堂；它风格奇特、引人注目，和比彻本人一样个性鲜明；它会融各种不同的宗教和建筑风格，其中比彻风格最为浓厚，与之浑然一体，毫无违和感。"
"Consequently, to call it a Congregational Church would not give half an idea of the thing.","因此，称其为公理会教堂根本体现不出它的意义。"
"There is only one word broad enough and deep enough to take in the whole affair and express it clearly, luminously and concisely—and that is Beecher.","只有一个词足以宽泛深刻地解释其全部意义，并且把它简洁明了地表达出来——这个词就是比彻。"
"The projected edifice I am about to speak of is, therefore, properly named in my caption as a new “Beecher Church.”","因此，在我的标题中，我将这座我要谈到的正在规划中的建筑，确切地称作“新比彻教堂”。"
"The projector is Rev. THOMAS K. BEECHER—brother of the other one, of course—I never knew but one BEECHER that wasn’t, and he was a nephew.","这座教堂的规划人是托马斯·Ｋ. 比彻牧师——自然是一位正人君子——我只见过比彻家出过一位浪子，还是个私生子。"
"The new church is to be built in Elmira, N. Y., where Mr. BEECHER has been preaching to one and the same congregation for the last sixteen years, and is thoroughly esteemed and beloved by his people.","新教堂将建在纽约的埃尔迈拉。在过去的十六年里，比彻先生在这里向一个教区的教徒布道，他深受教众的尊崇与爱戴。"
"I have had opportunity to hear all aboat the new church, for I have lately been visiting in Elmira.","我不久前造访了埃尔迈拉，因此有幸听闻了有关新教堂的一切。"
"Now, when one has that disease which gives its possessor the title of “humorist,” he must make oath to his statements, else the public will not believe him.","如今，若一个人被冠以“幽默家”这样的恶名，他就必须对他说的话起誓，否则人们不会相信他。"
"Therefore, I make solemn oath that what I am going to tell about the new church is the strict truth.","因此，我庄重地起誓，我将要谈到的有关新教堂的一切，都是千真万确的。"
"The main building—for there are to be three, massed together in a large grassy square, ornamented with quite a forest of shade trees—will be the church proper.","主建筑——因为将有三座建筑聚集在一个绿草如茵的大广场上，四周绿树成阴——将是教堂的主体。"
"It will be lofty, in order to secure good air and ventilation.","教堂将高高耸立，以确保空气良好且畅通。"
"The auditorium will be circular—an amphitheatre, after the ordinary pattern of an opera-house, without galleries.","礼堂为圆形——仿造歌剧院的传统布局，没有楼座，类似一个圆形剧场。"
"It is to seat a thousand persons.","礼堂可以容纳一千人。"
"On one side (or one end, if you choose,) will be an ample raised platform for the minister, the rear half of which will be occupied by the organ and the choir.","在礼堂的一边（或者一端，如果你乐意这样说），是一个凸起的宽敞讲台，这是为牧师所设的，讲台的后半部分则是为乐队和唱诗班准备的。"
"Before the minister will be the circling amphitheatre of pews, the first thirty of forty on the level floor, and the next rising in graduated tiers to the walls.","牧师前方是环形阶梯长凳，前三十或四十个座位与地板等高，接下来的则沿着墙一层层升高。"
"The seats on the level floor will be occupied by the aged and infirm, who can enter the church through a hall under the speaker’s platform without climbing any stairs.","与地板等高的座位为年老体弱者所设，他们可以不用爬楼梯，从讲台下面的通道直接进入礼堂。"
"The people occupying the raised tiers will enter by a dozen doors opening into the church from a lobby like an opera-house lobby, and descend the various aisles to their places, in case of fire or earthquakes, these numerous exits will be convenient and useful.","坐在阶梯上层的教众可经过一个歌剧院式的门廊，从十二个敞开的大门进入，接着顺着不同的过道到各自的座位去。为了防范火灾和地震，很多出口都是方便可用的。"
"No space is to be wasted.","教堂的空间利用得很充分。"
"Under the raised tiers of pews are to be stalls for horses and carriages, so that these may be sheltered from sun and rain.","在阶梯形座位下面，是为马匹和马车所设的小隔间，以便为它们遮阳挡雨。"
"There will be twenty-four of these stalls, each stall to be entered by an arch of ornamental masonry—no doors to open or shut.","这样的小隔间共有二十四个，可通过一个起装饰作用的石拱门进入每个隔间——没有可供开和关的门。"
"Consequently the outside base of the church will have a formidable port-holed look, like a man-of-war.","因此，教堂外围的底部看上去就像一艘布满炮眼的军舰，令人畏惧。"
"The stalls are to be so mailed with “deadeners,” and so thoroughly plastered, that neither sound nor smell can ascend to the church and offend the worshippers.","小隔间涂上了隔音材料和灰浆，下面的声音和气味都不会飘进教堂影响教众。"
"The horses will be in attendance at church but an hour or two at a time, of course, and can defile the stalls but little; an immediate cleansing after they leave is to set that all right again.","马匹会在教堂得到照料，但每次只有一到两个小时，当然她们也不会将小隔间弄得太脏；而马匹离去后，清洁工会立即对隔间进行清洗，又使其焕然一新。"
"There is to be no steeple on the church—merely because no practical use can be made of it.","教堂没有尖阁——仅因为它无实际用途。"
"There is to be no bell, because any ignoramus knows what time church service begins without that exasperating nuisance.","教堂也没有大钟，因为再蠢的人也知道礼拜开始的时间，不需要烦人的钟声提示。"
"In explanation of the remark, I will state that at home I suffer in the vicinity and under the distracting clangor of thirteen church bells, all of whom (is that right?) clamor at once, and no two in accord.","为了说明这一点，我举个例子。我家周围有十三座教堂，每个教堂都装有一座大钟，十三座大钟不约而同地（难道不是吗？）响钟，响声纷乱不齐，非常烦人。"
"A large part of my most valuable time is taken up in devising cruel and unusual sufferings, and, in fancy, inflicting them on those bell-ringers, and having a good time.","我用大部分的宝贵时间去筹谋一些残忍而少见的折磨方式，幻想将其施加于那些敲钟者，以此宣泄我的愤怒。"
"The second building is to be less lofty than the church; is to be built right against the rear of it, and communicate with it by a door.","第二栋楼没有教堂主体高，就矗立在其后方，通过一个门互相连通。"
"It is to have two stories.","该建筑有两层。"
"One the first floor will be three distinct Sunday-school rooms—all large, but one considerably larger than the other two.","第一层有三间独立的主日学校教室——三间都很大，但其中一间明显比其他两间大。"
"The Sunday-school connected with Mr. BEECHER’S church has always been a “graded” one, and each department singularly thorough in its grade of instruction; the pupil wins his advancement to the higher grades by hard-won proficiency, not by mere added years.","与比彻先生的教堂有联系的主日学校一直是分年级制，每个学部只专门负责所属年级的教学；学生升级不仅仅根据其就读的年纪，还需根据其对知识的熟练掌握。"
"The largest of the three compartments will be used as the main Sunday-school room, and for the week-day evening lecture.","三个教室中，最大的那间将被作为主日学校的主教室和平日晚上讲道的地点。"
"The whole upper story of this large building will be well lighted and ventilated, and occupied wholly as a play-room for the children of the church, and it will stand open and welcome to them through all the week days.","这座大型建筑的整个二层光线充足、通风良好，完全作为来教堂的孩子们的游戏室，平日都对孩子们开放，欢迎孩子们去玩。"
"They can fill it with their playthings if they choose, and besides it will be furnished with dumb-bells, swings, rocking-horses, and all such matters as children delight in.","如果孩子们喜欢，可以将他们自己的玩具放在游戏室里面；除此之外，这里还有哑铃、秋千、摇马等孩子们喜欢的玩具。"
"The idea is to make a child look upon a church as only another home, and a sunny one, rather than as a dismal exile or a prison.","这都是为了让孩子们把教堂当成他们的另一个家，一个快乐的地方，而不是一个阴暗的场所或监狱。"
"The third building will be less lofty than the second; it will adjoin the rear of the second, and communicate with it by a door or doors.","第三栋楼将不及第二栋楼高，它与第二栋后部毗连，并通过一个或几个门相连。"
"It will consist of three stories.","它将由三层构成。"
"Like the other two buildings, it will cover considerable ground.","与前两栋一样，它也将占据相当大的面积。"
"On the first floor will be the “church parlors,” where the usual social gatherings of modern congregations are held.","第一层是“教堂会客厅”，用于举行现代教会的惯例社交聚会。"
"On the same floor, and opening into the parlors, will be a reception-room, and also a circulating library—a free library—not simply free to the church membership, but to everybody, just as is the present library of Mr. BEECHER’S church (and few libraries are more extensively and more diligently and gratefully used than this one).","在同一层，与会客厅相通的将是一个接待室和一个流动图书馆——免费的图书馆——不只是面向教堂教众，而是对任何人都免费，就像比彻先生的教堂现有的图书馆一样（很少有图书馆比它应用范围更广、使用率更高、获得更多赞誉）。"
"Also, on this floor, and communicating with the parlors, will be—tell it not in Gath, publish it not in Askalon!—six bathrooms!—hot and cold water—free tickets issued to any applicant among the unclean of the congregation!","依然在这层，与会客厅相通，将是——不要随便说，也不要告诉别人——六间浴室！——供应冷水和热水——教徒中任何一个需要洗澡的人，只要申请，都能来免费沐浴。"
"The idea is sound and sensible, for this reason: Many members of all congregations have no good bathing facilities, and are not able to pay for them at the barber-shops without feeling the expense; and yet a luxurious bath is a thing that all civilized beings greatly enjoy and derive healthful benefit form.","此想法合情合理，因为教会中的很多教徒都没有好的淋浴设备；理发店里有这些设备，但价格昂贵，让他们无力承担。然而，一番舒适的沐浴却是所有文明人所喜爱和有益健康的事情。"
"The church buildings are to be heated by steam, and consequently the waste steam can be very judiciously utilized in the proposed bath-rooms.","教堂通过蒸汽供热，而多余的蒸汽正好可以用于规划中的浴室。"
"In speaking of this bath-room project, I have revealed a state secret—but I never could keep on of any kind, state or otherwise.","关于这个浴室计划，我这算是透露了一项国家机密了——我一向守不住秘密，无论是国家的，还是其他的。"
"Even the congregation were not to know of this matter; the building committee were to leave it unmentioned in their report; but I got hold of it—and from a member of that committee, too—and I had rather part with one of my hind legs than keep still about it.","甚至连教徒也不知道这件事，建筑委员会也并未在报道中提及这件事。但我从委员会的一个成员那里得知这件事，我宁愿损失一条腿，也不愿保持沉默。"
"The bath-rooms are unquestionably to be built, and so why not tell it?","浴室毫无疑问会修建，那么为什么不能说呢？"
"In the second story of this third building will be the permanent home of the “Church missionary,” a lady who constantly looks after the poor and sick of the Church; also a set of lodging and living rooms for the janitors (or janitoresses? for they will be women. Mr. BEECHER holding that women are tidier and more efficient in such a position than men, and that they ought to dwell upon the premises and give them their undivided care;)","第三栋楼的第二层是“传教士”的固定住所，这位“传教士”是一位女性，长期照料教会中贫苦、患病的教众；还有几件房间和起居室供门卫使用（或者说女门卫，因为有可能是女人比彻先生认为，女性在这个职位上比男性更有条理，更有效率。她们会为教众细细打算，无微不至地照料他们）。"
"also, on this second floor are to be six rooms to do duty as a church infirmary for the sick and poor of the congregation, this Church having always supported and taken care of its own unfortunates, instead of leaving them to the public charity.","另外，第二层还有六间房间作为教堂的医务室，照料教徒中穷苦病弱的人。这座教堂一向帮助和关心教会中不幸的人们，而不是将他们丢给慈善机构。"
"In the infirmary will be kept one or two water-beds (for invalids whose pains will not allow them to be on a less yielding substance) and half a dozen reclining invalid-chairs on wheels.","在医务室里，保留着一两张水床（因为有些病人患处疼痛，不能躺在硬床上），还有六张带轮子的病人专用躺椅。"
"The water-beds and invalid-chairs at present belonging to the church are always in demand, and never out of service.","水床和病人专用躺椅目前总是供不应求，从未闲置过。"
"Part of the appurtenances of the new church will be a horse and an easy vehicle, to be kept and driven by a janitor, and used wholly for giving the church’s indigent invalids air and exercise.","新教堂的部分附属物包括一匹马和一辆简易车，由一位门卫保管和驾驶，完全供教会贫苦的病人到户外呼吸新鲜空气和进行锻炼。"
"It is found that such an establishment is daily needed—so much so, indeed, as to almost amount to a church necessity.","据证实，这样的设施是日常必需品——简直太必要了，都快成了教堂的必备品了。"
"The third story of this third building is to be occupied as the church kitchen, and it is sensibly placed aloft, so that the ascending noises and boarding-house smells shall go up and aggravate the birds, instead of the saints—except such of the latter as are above the clouds, and they can easily keep out of the way of it, no doubt.","第三栋楼的第三层是教堂的厨房，把它安排在顶层是明智的，因为向上扩散的噪音和油烟影响的只是鸟儿，而不是圣徒——除非这些圣徒能飞上云霄，否则他们绝对不会受到丝毫影响。"
"Dumb-waiters will carry the food down to the church parlors instead of up.","升降机会将食物下送到教堂会客厅，而不是向上送。"
"Why is it that nobody has thought of the simple wisdom of this arrangement before?","为什么先前没有人想出过这种巧妙又简单的方法呢？"
"Is it for a church to step forward and tell us how to get rid of kitchen smells and noises?","难道需要一个教堂站出来告诉我们如何避免厨房油烟和噪音吗？"
"If it be asked why the new church will need a kitchen, I remind the reader of the infirmary occupants, etc.","如果被问及为什么新教堂需要厨房，我会提醒读者别忘了在医务室的那些病人。"
"They must eat; and, beside, social gatherings of members of this congregation meet at the church parlors as often as three and four evenings a week, and sew, drink tea, and g—. G—.","他们要吃饭，此外，本教区的教徒们每周晚上还要在会客厅举行三到四次社交聚会，他们缝纫、喝茶以及聊——聊——。"
"It commences with g, I think, but somehow I cannot think of the word.","我想我要用“聊”字开头，但不知为什么，我却想不起来这个词了。"
"The new church parlors will be large, and it is intended that these social gatherings shall be promoted and encouraged, and that they shall take an added phase, viz.: When several families want to indulge in a little reunion and have not room in their small houses at home, they can have it in the church parlors.","新教堂的会客厅很大，旨在促进和鼓励社交聚会；他们还要采取其他形式，换句话说，当几个家庭想要办一场小的聚会，而他们自己的小房子里没有足够的空间，他们就可以在教堂会客厅举行。"
"You will notice in every feature of this new church one predominant idea and purpose always discernible—the banding together of the congregation as a family, and the making of the church a home.","你会注意到，在新教堂的每处特征中，始终贯穿着一个鲜明的理念和宗旨——教徒像家人一样团结在一起，使教堂成为一个家。"
"You see it in the play-room, the library, the parlors, the baths, the infirmary—it is everywhere.","你可以在游戏室、图书馆、会客厅、浴室、医务室——到处都能感受到这一点。"
"It is the great central ruling idea.","这是一个伟大的中心指导思想。"
"To entirely consummate such a thing would be impossible with nearly any other congregation in the Union; but after sixteen years of moulding and teaching, Mr. BEECHER has made it wholly possible and practicable with this one.","要彻底贯彻这样一种思想，对美国其他任何一个教会来说，几乎都是不可能的；然而，历经十六年的筹备和教导，比彻先生使其完全成为可能，并且是这个教堂切实可用。"
"It is not stretching metaphor too far to say that he is the father of his people, and his church their mother.","说他是教徒们的父亲，他的教堂是他们的母亲，这个比喻一点儿也不牵强。"
"If the new church project is a curiosity, it is still but an inferior curiosity compared to the plan of raising the money for it.","如果说这个新教堂计划是一件奇事，那么，与修建它的筹款计划相比，它就显得微不足道了。"
"One could have told, with his eyes shut and hone hand tied behind him, that it originated with a BEECHER—I was going to say with a lunatic, but the success of the plan robs me of the opportunity.","一个人即使被蒙上眼，手被绑在身后，也能知道这个计划是比彻先生发起的——我原本想说是个疯子发起的，但是它成功了，我就没机会这么说了。"
"When it was decided to build a new church edifice, at a cost of not less than $40,000 nor more than $50,000, (for the membership is not 350 strong, and there are not six men in it who can strictly be called rich,) Mr. BEECHER gave to each member a printed circular, inclosed in an envelope, prepaid and addressed to himself, to be returned through the Post-office:","决定修建新教堂时，造价在四万美元到五万美元之间（因为教徒不到三百五十人，其中真正能称为富人的不到六人），于是比彻先生给每个教徒发了一张打印的通知，装在一个贴好邮票的密封信封里，收信人就是他自己，要求教徒将通知通过邮局寄回。原文如下："
"[Confidential.]","【机密】"
"It is proposed to build a meeting-house and other rooms for the use of the church.","计划修建一间会议室和其他几间房间，供教堂使用。"
"To do this work honestly and well, it is proposed to spend one year in raising a part of the money in advance, and in getting plans and making contracts.","为了切实做好这项工作，计划用一年时间来提前筹集一部分经费，并完善计划和签订合同。"
"One year, plans and contracts—April 1, 1871 to 1872","用一年时间定计划、签合同——1871年4月1日到1872年4月1日"
"One year, build and cover in—April 1, 1872 to 1873","用一年时间修建框架结构——1872年4月1日到1873年4月1日"
"One year, plaster, finish and furnish—April 1, 1873 to 1874","用一年时间抹灰泥、抛光、装修——1873年4月1日到1874年4月1日"
"One year, pay for in full and dedicate—April 1, 1874 to 1875","用一年时间付完全款、落成——1874年4月1日到1875年4月1日"
"It is proposed to expend not less than $20,000 nor more than $50,000 according to the ability sown by the returns of these cards of confidential subscription.","计划耗资不少于两万美元，不多于五万美元，这取决于反馈回来的秘密奉献金的数额。"
"Any member of the church and congregation, or nay friend of the church, is allowed and invited to subscribe.","欢迎教堂和教会的任何一个成员，或是教堂的任何一位朋友来捐献。"
"But no one is urged.","但绝不强迫。"
"T. K. BEECHER, Pastor","T. Ｋ. 比彻牧师"
"To help build our meeting-house I think I shall be able to give","为了帮助修建我们的会议室，我想我应该捐款："
"Not less than …………………….and ","不少于……并且"
"Not more than ………………………","不多于……"
"Each year for four years, beginning April 1, 1871.","开始于1871年4月1日，连续四年。"
"Or I can make in one payment ……..","或者我可以一次性捐款……"
"Trusting in the Lord to help me, I hereby subscribe the same as noted above.","相信上帝会帮助我，我会如数捐赠，特此公告。"
"Name ………………………………","姓名：……"
"Residence ………………………….","住址：……"
"The subscriptions were to be wholly voluntary and strictly confidential; no one was to know the amount of a man’s subscription except himself and the minister; nobody was urged to give anything at all; all were simply invited to give whatever sum they felt was right and just, from ten cents upward, and no questions asked, no criticisms made, no revealments uttered.","捐赠完全出于自愿，并严格保密，除了牧师和捐赠者本人外，没有任何人会知道捐款的数额；绝不强迫任何人捐赠；仅鼓励所有人捐出他们认为恰当合理的金额，从十美分起，上不封顶，不提任何问题，不发表任何评论，也不透露任何信息。"
"There was no possible chance for glory, for even though a man gave his whole fortune, nobody would ever know it.","没有扬名的机会，因为即使一个人捐出了他的全部家当，也没有人知道。"
"I do not know when anything has struck me as being so Utopian, so absurdly romantic, so ignorant, on its face, of human nature.","我不知道是什么东西，什么时候，突然让我感到，自己对人性的理解如此理想化，如此浪漫，如此无知。"
"And so anybody would have thought.","任何人都会有这样的感觉。"
"Parties said Mr. BEECHER had “educated” his people, and that each would give as he privately felt able, and not bother about the glory.","当事人说比彻先生已经“教育”过他的教徒，每位教徒会竭尽所能，不计较个人得失。"
"I believed human nature to be a more potent educator than any minister, and that the result would show it.","我坚信人性本身就是教育者，比任何牧师都更有效，结果会证实这一点。"
"But I was wrong.","然而我错了。"
"At the end of a month or two, some two-thirds of the circulars had wended back, one by one, to the pastor, silently and secretly, through the post-office, and then, without mentioning the name of any giver, or the amount of his gift, Mr. BEECHER announced from the pulpit that all the money needed was pledged—the certain amount being over $45,000 and the possible amount over $53,000!","一两个月之后，大约三分之二的通知一封接一封悄悄地、秘密地通过邮局寄回了。然后，没有提及任何捐赠者的姓名和捐款金额，比彻先生在讲道坛上公布说，所需的经费有了保证——捐款总额超过了四万五千美元，有可能突破五万三千美元。"
"When the remainder of the circulars have come in, it is confidently expected and believed that they will add to these amounts a sum of not less than $10,000.","要是剩余的通知能返回，人们有理由期待和相信，总额会在原有基础上增加不少于一万美元。"
"A great many subscriptions from children and working men consisted of cash inclosures, ranging from a ten-cent currency stamp up to five, ten, and fifteen dollars.","大量来自儿童和工人的捐款是直接将现金装入寄回，包括从十美分到五、十、十五美元不等的通用邮票。"
"As I said before, the plan of levying the building tax, and the success of the plan, are much more curious and surprising than the exceedingly curious edifice the money is to create.","正如我先前说的，征收修建费计划以及整个计划的成功，比用捐款修建的那座奇特建筑更为出人意料。"
"The reason the moneys are to be paid in four annual instalments—for that is the plan—is partly to make the payments easy, but chiefly because the church is to be substantially build, and its several parts allowed time to settle and season, each in its turn.","经费之所以分四年支付——计划就是这样的——部分是由于这样支付容易些，但主要是由于修建教堂是个大工程，它的几个部分需要依次稳固和风干。"
"For instance, the superstructures will be allowed a good part of the first year to settle and compact themselves after completion; the walls the second year, and so forth and so on.","例如，上层结构完工后，会需要用第一年的相当一部分时间来完成自我稳固和收缩，墙壁在第二年，以此类推。"
"There is to be no work done by contract, and no unseasoned wood used.","工作不实行包工制，也不使用未风干的木料。"
"The materials are to be sound and good, and honest, competent, conscientious workmen (BEECHER says there are such, the opinion of the world to the contrary notwithstanding,) hired at full wages, by the day, to put them together.","所需材料结实稳固，所用工人诚实、能干、有觉悟（比彻说有这样的工人，而世人的看法恰好相反），工人或按日结工资，或全额聘请，二者有效结合。"
"The above statements are all true and genuine, according to the oath I have already made thereto, and which I am now about to repeat before a notary, in legal form, and with my hand upon the book.","鉴于我先前的誓言，上述陈述千真万确。我现在愿在公证人面前，以法律的形式，手放在圣经上，再宣誓一遍。"
"Consequently, we are going to have at least on sensible, but very, very curious church in America.","因此，在美国，我们至少将有一座实用但又非常非常奇特的教堂。"
"I am aware that I had no business to tell all these matters, but the reporter instinct was strong upon me, and I could not help it.","我知道我没有权利来评论所有这些事情，但是我身上根深蒂固的记者天性让我情不自禁。"
"And besides they were in everybody’s mouth in Elmira, anyway.","此外，埃尔迈拉的每个人都在谈论此事。"
"BUFFALO, June, 1871.","布法罗，1871年6月。"

