"书名魔球小子与坏人（巴苏陀民间童话）短简介魔球小子是如何智斗坏人，死里逃生夺得宝物的呢？他本身是个很普通的小男孩，被女巫抓去后，凭借自己的毅力，得到了小精灵的帮助和女巫的魔球。后来，他受女巫的指派，前往坏人的住处寻宝。在经历了很多艰难险阻之后，最终凭借自己的智慧和勇气，打败了坏人，拿回了宝物。长简介这篇故事以生动地笔触，向读者描述了一个普通的小男孩，是如何变成了拥有非凡力量、勇气及智慧的魔球小子的，而后又向我们描述了魔球小子智斗坏人并死里逃生的惊心动魄的夺宝经过。小说一开始便险象环生，讲述了小男孩被女巫诱擒并禁食转变的过程。之后，故事情节环环紧扣，叙述了小男孩按照女巫的要求，凭借着魔球和小精灵的帮助，勇渡大河，施技夺宝，被发现后临危不乱，凭着自己的勇气与智慧和坏人周旋，最终逃离险境，拿到了宝物，并消灭了坏人。这个故事向孩子们讲述了做人要意志坚定，做事要有勇有谋的道理。关键字魔球小子与坏人；外研社编译组；童话故事；魔球；小男孩；女巫；小精灵；坏人；女仆作者（英）安德鲁·朗格作者简介安德鲁•朗格（1884～1912），英国著名文学家、历史学家、诗人、民俗学家。朗格以研究神话和民间传说闻名于世。他于1889年刊行《蓝色童话》以来，到1907年止，又陆续编辑出版了《绿色童话》、《红色童话》、《黄色童话》等十一部《彩色童话集》。书评魔球小子的种种经历，让孩子们明白，做人要意志坚定，做事要有勇有谋。"
"Ball-Carrier and the Bad One","魔球小子和坏人"
"by Andrew Lang","作者：安德鲁•朗格"
"Far, far in the forest there were two little huts, and in each of them lived a man who was a famous hunter, his wife, and three or four children.","在遥远的森林中有两座小屋，每座小屋中都住着一位有名的猎人、他的妻子和三四个孩子。"
"Now the children were forbidden to play more than a short distance from the door, as it was known that, away on the other side of the wood near the great river, there dwelt a witch who had a magic ball that she used as a means of stealing children.","现在，孩子们只能在家门口附近玩耍。因为，听说在森林的另一边靠近大河的地方，住着一个女巫，她有一个专门用来偷小朋友的魔球。"
"Her plan was a very simple one, and had never yet failed.","她的方法很简单，并且从来没有失败过。"
"When she wanted a child she just flung her ball in the direction of the child’s home, and however far off it might be, the ball was sure to reach it.","当她想要偷一个小朋友的时候，她只需要将魔球朝着那个小朋友的家的方向一扔，不管离得有多远，魔球都一定能到那里。"
"Then, as soon as the child saw it, the ball would begin rolling slowly back to the witch, just keeping a little ahead of the child, so that he always thought that he could catch it the next minute.","然后，只要小朋友一看到它，魔球就开始慢慢地朝着女巫的方向往回滚，仅在小朋友前面保持一点点的距离，总让他以为马上就能抓到魔球。"
"But he never did, and, what was more, his parents never saw him again.","但是他从来没有抓到过它，并且他的父母从此再也没见过他。"
"Of course you must not suppose that all the fathers and mothers who had lost children made no attempts to find them, but the forest was so large, and the witch was so cunning in knowing exactly where they were going to search, that it was very easy for her to keep out of the way.","当然，你不要以为所有丢了孩子的爸爸妈妈们从来没有试着找过他们的孩子，但是森林太大了，女巫又太狡猾，她对父母们要去哪里找他们的孩子知道得一清二楚，所以她很轻易地就躲过了他们。"
"Besides, there was always the chance that the children might have been eaten by wolves, of which large herds roamed about in winter.","另外，冬天的时候会有大量狼群在这里出没，所以孩子们很有可能是被这些狼吃了。"
"One day the old witch happened to want a little boy, so she threw her ball in the direction of the hunters’ huts.","有一天，老女巫碰巧想要一个小男孩，于是她把魔球朝着猎人小屋的方向扔了出去。"
"A child was standing outside, shooting at a mark with his bow and arrows, but the moment he saw the ball, which was made of glass whose blues and greens and whites, all frosted over, kept changing one into the other, he flung down his bow, and stooped to pick the ball up.","一个孩子正站在外面玩射箭。但是他一看到魔球，就扔下了弓箭，弯腰去捡球。魔球是玻璃制的，表面结了一层霜，还不停地变换着颜色，一会儿蓝，一会儿绿，一会儿又变成了白色。"
"But as he did so it began to roll very gently downhill.","正在这时，球开始慢慢地朝坡下滚去。"
"The boy could not let it roll away, when it was so close to him, so he gave chase.","眼看着球已经离自己这么近了，小男孩不想让它滚跑，于是便开始追赶。"
"The ball seemed always within his grasp, yet he could never catch it; it went quicker and quicker, and the boy grew more and more excited.","球看起来总像马上就能抓到，但是却总抓不到；它越滚越快，小男孩也越来越兴奋。"
"That time he almost touched it—no, he missed it by a hair’s breadth!","突然间，他几乎马上就够到了——哦，不，就差一点儿了就抓住它了！"
"Now, surely, if he gave a spring he could get in front of it!","如果现在他跳一下的话，肯定能蹦到球的前面。"
"He sprang forward, tripped and fell, and found himself in the witch’s house!","于是，他往前一跳，一下子被绊倒了，爬起来却发现自己在女巫的房子里！"
"‘Welcome! welcome! grandson!’ said she; ‘get up and rest yourself, for you have had a long walk, and I am sure you must be tired!’","“欢迎！欢迎！乖孩子！”她说道，“站起来，休息休息吧，走了这么远的路，你一定累坏了吧！”"
"So the boy sat down, and ate some food which she gave him in a bowl.","于是男孩坐了下来，吃了女巫端来的一碗食物。"
"It was quite different from anything he had tasted before, and he thought it was delicious.","食物的味道和他以往吃过的东西很不一样，他觉得特别美味。"
"When he had eaten up every bit, the witch asked him if he had ever fasted.","当他一口不剩地吃干净后，女巫问他以前有没有禁过食。"
"‘No,’ replied the boy, ‘at least I have been obliged to sometimes, but never if there was any food to be had.’","“没有，”男孩回答道，“除非有几次是真的没有什么可吃的了，有食物的时候我从没有饿着过。”"
"‘You will have to fast if you want the spirits to make you strong and wise, and the sooner you begin the better.’","“如果你想让小精灵们把你变得强壮和聪明，你就必须禁食，并且越早开始越好。”"
"‘Very well,’ said the boy, ‘what do I do first?’","“好啊，”男孩说道，“我首先要做什么呢？”"
"‘Lie down on those buffalo skins by the door of the hut,’ answered she; and the boy lay down, and the squirrels and little bears and the birds came and talked to him.","“躺在屋门边上的那些水牛皮上。”女巫说道。于是男孩躺了下去，接着松鼠、小熊和小鸟们纷纷前来和他讲话。"
"At the end of ten days the old woman came to him with a bowl of the same food that he had eaten before.","到了第十天结束的时候，那个老女巫来到他旁边，端了一碗和上次一样的食物。"
"‘Get up, my grandson, you have fasted long enough.","“起来吧，我的乖孩子，你禁食的时间够长的了。"
"Have the good spirits visited you, and granted you the strength and wisdom that you desire?’","那些善良的小精灵们有没有来看看你，并且把你想要得到的力量和智慧给了你呢？”"
"‘Some of them have come, and have given me a portion of both,’ answered the boy, ‘but many have stayed away from me.’","“有一些小精灵来过了，两样都给了我一点点，”小男孩回答道，“但是很多小精灵还是不肯靠近我。”"
"‘Then,’ said she, ‘you must fast ten days more.’","“那么，”女巫说，“你必须再禁食十天。”"
"So the boy lay down again on the buffalo skins, and fasted for ten days, and at the end of that time he turned his face to the wall, and fasted for twenty days longer.","于是小男孩再次躺到了水牛皮上，不吃不喝地过了十天。在第十天结束的时候，他把脸转了过去，冲着墙又禁食了二十天。"
"At length the witch called to him, and said:","最后，女巫终于呼唤他说："
"‘Come and eat something, my grandson.’","“我的乖孩子，进来吃点儿东西吧。”"
"At the sound of her voice the boy got up and ate the food she gave him.","听到女巫叫他，小男孩站了起来，吃了她给的食物。"
"When he had finished every scrap she spoke as before: ‘Tell me, my grandson, have not the good spirits visited you all these many days that you have fasted?’","他一点儿不剩地吃完食物以后，女巫像以前一样说道：“告诉我，乖孩子，在你禁食的这么多天里，善良的小精灵们来看你了吗？”"
"‘Not all, grandmother,’ answered he; ‘there are still some who keep away from me and say that I have not fasted long enough.’","“没有都来，老奶奶，”小男孩回答道，“还是有一些小精灵远远地站着对我说，我禁食的时间还是不够长。”"
"‘Then you must fast again,’ replied the old woman, ‘and go on fasting till you receive the gifts of all the good spirits.","“那么你必须继续禁食，”老女巫回答道，“直到你收到所有善良的小精灵的礼物为止。"
"Not one must be missing.’","一个都不能少。”"
"The boy said nothing, but lay down for the third time on the buffalo skins, and fasted for twenty days more.","小男孩什么都没说，他第三次躺到了水牛皮上，不吃不喝地又过了二十天。"
"And at the end of that time the witch thought he was dead, his face was so white and his body so still.","等到了第二十天的时候，女巫以为他已经死了。他的脸色十分苍白，身体一动不动。"
"But when she had fed him out of the bowl he grew stronger, and soon was able to sit up.","但是当她喂他吃了一碗食物以后，他渐渐地有了力气，并且不久就能坐起来了。"
"‘You have fasted a long time,’ said she, ‘longer than anyone ever fasted before.","“你已经禁食了很长时间了，”她说道，“比任何人禁食的时间都长。"
"Surely the good spirits must be satisfied now?’","现在那些善良的小精灵们肯定满意了吧？”"
"‘Yes, grandmother,’ answered the boy, ‘they have all come, and have given me their gifts.’","“是的，老奶奶，”小男孩回答道，“他们都来过了，给了我他们的礼物。”"
"This pleased the old woman so much that she brought him another basin of food, and while he was eating it she talked to him, and this is what she said: ‘Far away, on the other side of the great river, is the home of the Bad One.","老女巫听后非常高兴，于是又给他拿来了一大碗吃的。小男孩一边吃，一边听她讲道：“在很远的地方，大河的另一边，住着一个坏人。"
"In his house is much gold, and what is more precious even than the gold, a little bridge, which lengthens out when the Bad One waves his hand, so that there is no river or sea that he cannot cross.","坏人的房子里有很多的金子，还有一个比金子还珍贵的东西——一座小桥。坏人一招手，小桥就会延长，所以没有坏人过不了的河和海。"
"Now I want that bridge and some of the gold for myself, and that is the reason that I have stolen so many boys by means of my ball.","现在，我想要那座桥和一些金子。所以我用魔球偷了很多小男孩。"
"I have tried to teach them how to gain the gifts of the good spirits, but none of them would fast long enough, and at last I had to send them away to perform simple, easy little tasks.","我试着教他们如何从善良的小精灵那里获得礼物，但是他们没有一个人能足够长时间禁食。最后，我不得不派他们去做一些简单容易的差事。","没有一个人能足够长时间禁食 不符合中文表达习惯-0.1"
"But you have been strong and faithful, and you can do this thing if you listen to what I tell you!","但是你却坚强而诚实。如果你按照我说的去做，你一定可以办成这件事！"
"When you reach the river tie this ball to your foot, and it will take you across—you cannot manage it in any other way.","当你到达河边的时候，把这个球绑在你的脚上，它会带你过河——可它不会受你控制。"
"But do not be afraid; trust to the ball, and you will be quite safe!’","但是你不要害怕，相信这个魔球，你会很安全的！”"
"The boy took the ball and put it in a bag.","男孩拿过魔球，把它放进了袋子里。"
"Then he made himself a club and a bow, and some arrows which would fly further than anyone else’s arrows, because of the strength the good spirits had given him.","然后他给自己做了一个棍棒、一张弓和几把箭。由于善良的小精灵给了他力量，所以小男孩的箭比任何人的都射得远。"
"They had also bestowed on him the power of changing his shape, and had increased the quickness of his eyes and ears so that nothing escaped him.","小精灵们还给了他变形的能力，并且使他的眼睛和耳朵更敏锐，这样就没有什么可以逃得过他的耳目。"
"And in some way or other they made him understand that if he needed more help they would give it to him.","另外，小精灵们还以这样那样的方式让他明白，如果他有需要的话，他们会帮助他的。"
"When all these things were ready the boy bade farewell to the witch and set out.","一切都准备好以后，小男孩和女巫道了别，便出发了。"
"He walked through the forest for several days without seeing anyone but his friends the squirrels and the bears and the birds, but though he stopped and spoke to them all, he was careful not to let them know where he was going.","他一连几天在森林中穿行，除了松鼠、熊和小鸟这些朋友外，什么人都没碰到。尽管他停下来和它们都说话，但是他却小心谨慎地不把要去的地方透露出去。"
"At last, after many days, he came to the river, and beyond it he noticed a small hut standing on a hill which he guessed to be the home of the Bad One.","在走了很多天以后，他终于来到了河边。在河对岸的山坡上，他看到了一座小屋。他猜想那座小屋应该就是坏人的家了吧。"
"But the stream flowed so quickly that he could not see how he was ever to cross it, and in order to test how swift the current really was, he broke a branch from a tree and threw it in.","但是河水流得太急了，他觉得自己肯定过不去。为了试一试水流得到底有多急，他从树上折了一根树枝扔到了河里。"
"It seemed hardly to touch the water before it was carried away, and even his magic sight could not follow it.","树枝刚一沾到水就被冲走了，甚至连他具备魔力的眼睛都没来得及看清。"
"He could not help feeling frightened, but he hated giving up anything that he had once undertaken, and, fastening the ball on his right foot, he ventured on the river.","他不禁害怕起来，但是他不想半途而废，于是他把魔球绑到了右脚上，壮着胆子向河走去。"
"To his surprise he was able to stand up; then a panic seized him, and he scrambled up the bank again.","令他惊讶的是，他竟然可以站在河水中；但是，随后他一阵惊慌，便又慌忙地爬回了岸上。"
"In a minute or two he plucked up courage to go a little further into the river, but again its width frightened him, and a second time he turned back.","过了一小会儿，他鼓起勇气，往河水的更深处走了一点儿。但是，河流太宽了，他又害怕起来，于是再次回到了岸上。"
"However, he felt rather ashamed of his cowardice, as it was quite clear that his ball could support him, and on his third trial he got safely to the other side.","然而，他对自己的胆小感到十分羞愧，因为很明显，魔球是可以帮助他过河的。于是他第三次来到了河中，并且平安地到了对岸。"
"Once there he replaced the ball in the bag, and looked carefully round him.","一上岸他就把魔球放回了袋子中，小心地环顾四周。"
"The door of the Bad One’s hut was open, and he saw that the ceiling was supported by great wooden beams, from which hung the bags of gold and the little bridge.","坏人家的门是开着的，一根根巨大的木质横梁支撑着屋顶，小桥和成袋的金子就挂在上面。"
"He saw, too, the Bad One sitting in the midst of his treasures eating his dinner, and drinking something out of a horn.","他还看到坏人正坐在他的财宝中间，一边吃饭，一边从一个角制的杯子里喝着什么东西。"
"It was plain to the boy that he must invent some plan of getting the Bad One out of the way, or else he would never be able to steal the gold or the bridge.","显而易见，男孩需要想出一个计划来引开坏人，否则，他永远也不可能偷到金子和桥。"
"What should he do?","他该怎么办呢？"
"Give horrible shrieks as if he were in pain?","假装疼痛地大喊大叫？"
"But the Bad One would not care whether he were murdered or not!","可是坏人根本不会在乎他的死活啊！"
"Call him by his name?","叫他的名字吗？"
"But the Bad One was very cunning, and would suspect some trick.","可是坏人很狡猾，他会怀疑这里面有什么诡计的。"
"He must try something better than that!","他必须找一个更好的办法！"
"Then suddenly an idea came to him, and he gave a little jump of joy.","突然，他有了一个主意，他高兴得为此小跳了起来。"
"‘Oh, how stupid of me not to think of that before!’ said he, and he wished with all his might that the Bad One should become very hungry—so hungry that he could not wait a moment for fresh food to be brought to him.","“哦，我刚刚真是太笨了，怎么没想到这个办法呢！”说着，他竭尽全力地许愿希望坏人会变得饥饿难耐——饿到根本等不及新做的食物被端上桌。"
"And sure enough at that instant the Bad One called out to his servant, ‘You did not bring food that would satisfy a sparrow Fetch some more at once, for I am perfectly starving.’","果然，在小男孩许愿的一瞬间，坏人对他的仆人嚷道：“你拿的那点儿食物还不够喂麻雀的呢！马上再端一些过来，我快饿死了。”"
"Then, without giving the woman time to go to the larder, he got up from his chair, and rolled, staggering from hunger, towards the kitchen.","还没等到女仆走到储藏食物的地方，坏人就站了起来，饿得摇摇晃晃地向厨房走去。"
"Directly the door had closed on the Bad One the boy ran in, pulled down a bag of gold from the beam, and tucked it under his left arm.","门在坏人的身后刚一关上，男孩便马上跑进了屋内，从梁上拽下一袋金子夹在自己的左胳膊下。"
"Next he unhooked the little bridge and put it under his right.","接着，他又解开小桥，放在了自己的右胳膊下。"
"He did not try to escape, as most boys of his age would have done, for the wisdom put into his mind by the good spirits taught him that before he could reach the river and make use of the bridge the Bad One would have tracked him by his footsteps and been upon him.","但是，由于善良的小精灵给了他智慧，所以他没有像大多数同龄人一样，选择马上逃跑，因为他知道在他跑到河边使用小桥之前，坏人就会寻着他的脚印抓到他。"
"So, making himself very small and thin, he hid himself behind a pile of buffalo skins in the corner, first tearing a slit through one of them, so that he could see what was going on.","于是，他把自己变得又瘦又小，藏到了角落里的一堆水牛皮后面，然后撕开了一个小缝，以便能看到外面发生了什么。"
"He had hardly settled himself when the servant entered the room, and, as she did so, the last bag of gold on the beam fell to the ground—for they had begun to fall directly the boy had taken the first one.","女仆进屋的时候，他刚刚藏好，梁上最后一袋金子掉到了地板上——这些金子在小男孩拿第一袋的时候，就开始纷纷往下掉了。"
"She cried to her master that someone had stolen both the bag and the bridge, and the Bad One rushed in, mad with anger, and bade her go and seek for footsteps outside, that they might find out where the thief had gone.","女仆大声呼喊他的主人，说有人偷了金子和桥，坏人冲了进来，气得发疯，命令女仆出去寻找脚印，这样他们就知道贼往哪个方向跑了。"
"In a few minutes she returned, saying that he must be in the house, as she could not see any footsteps leading to the river, and began to move all the furniture in the room, without discovering Ball Carrier.","不一会儿，女仆回来了，说贼一定是在屋子里，因为外面看不到任何朝河流方向去的脚印。于是他们开始移动屋子里的家具，但是并没有找到魔球小子。"
"‘But he must be here somewhere,’ she said to herself, examining for the second time the pile of buffalo skins; and Ball-Carrier, knowing that he could not possibly escape now, hastily wished that the Bad One should be unable to eat any more food at present.","“他一定就在这里的某个地方。”女仆自言自语道，又开始检查那堆水牛皮；魔球小子知道，这次他可能逃不掉了，便赶忙许愿坏人现在吃不下任何东西了。"
"‘Ah, there is a slit in this one,’ cried the servant, shaking the skin; ‘and here he is.’","“啊，这儿有一个缝，”女仆叫喊道，然后她抖了抖水牛皮，“找到他了。”"
" And she pulled out Ball-Carrier, looking so lean and small that he would hardly have made a mouthful for a sparrow.","接着她把魔球小子拽了出来，他看起来又瘦又小，还不够麻雀吃一口的呢。"
"‘Was it you who took my gold and bridge?’ asked the Bad One.","“是你拿了我的金子和桥吗？”坏人问道。"
"‘Yes,’ answered Ball-Carrier, ‘it was I who took them.’","“是的，”魔球小子答道，“是我拿的。”"
"The Bad One made a sign to the woman, who inquired where he had hidden them.","坏人给女仆使了个眼色，于是女仆便审问小男孩把东西藏到哪里了。"
"He lifted his left arm where the gold was, and she picked up a knife and scraped his skin so that no gold should be left sticking to it.","他抬起了夹着金子的左胳膊，于是女仆拿起一把刀来刮他的皮，以保证没有金子粘在上面。"
"‘What have you done with the bridge?’ said she.","“桥被你藏在哪里了？”她问道。"
"And he lifted his right arm, from which she took the bridge, while the Bad One looked on, well pleased.","于是小男孩抬起了右胳膊，女仆拿出了桥，坏人看了看，非常高兴。"
"‘Be sure that he does not run away,’ chuckled he.","“别让他跑了，”坏人咯咯地笑着说，"
"‘Boil some water, and get him ready for cooking, while I go and invite my friends the water-demons to the feast.’","“烧一些开水，准备把他煮了，我去叫我的水怪朋友们来吃大餐。”"
"The woman seized Ball-Carrier between her finger and thumb, and was going to carry him to the kitchen, when the boy spoke:","女仆用食指和拇指捏住小男孩，正准备把他带到厨房时，小男孩说："
"‘I am very lean and small now,’ he said, ‘hardly worth the trouble of cooking; but if you were to keep me two days, and gave me plenty of food, I should get big and fat.","“我现在又瘦又小，做成饭的话还不够你费事的呢；但是如果你养我两天，多给我一点儿食物，我会长得又肥又大。"
"As it is, your friends the water-demons would think you meant to laugh at them, when they found that I was the feast.’","要是像现在这样，当你的水怪朋友们看到我就是你所谓的盛宴的话，他们一定会以为你在戏弄他们。”"
"‘Well, perhaps you are right,’ answered the Bad One; ‘I will keep you for two days.’","“嗯，也许你说得对，”坏人说道，“我再多留你两天吧。”"
" And he went out to visit the water-demons.","说完，他便出去拜访他的水怪朋友们去了。"
"Meanwhile the servant, whose name was Lung Woman, led him into a little shed, and chained him up to a ring in the wall.","随后，那个叫肺女的仆人把他带到了一个小棚子里，然后把他绑在了墙上的一个圈子上。"
"But food was given him every hour, and at the end of two days he was as fat and big as a Christmas turkey, and could hardly move his head from one side to the other.","每过一个小时他都会吃一顿饭，两天后，他肥大得像一只圣诞节的火鸡，摇一摇头都很困难。"
"‘He will do now,’ said the Bad One, who came constantly to see how he was getting on.","“现在能吃他了。”坏人说，这段时间他一直在不停地前来查看小男孩长得怎么样了，"
"‘I shall go and tell the water-demons that we expect them to dinner to-night.","“我应该去告诉水怪们，希望他们今晚前来就餐。"
"Put the kettle on the fire, but be sure on no account to taste the broth.’","把水壶架在火上，但是任何人都绝不能尝肉汤。”"
"Lung-Woman lost no time in obeying her orders.","肺女马上执行了主人的命令。"
"She built up the fire, which had got very low, filled the kettle with water, and passing a rope which hung from the ceiling through the handle, swung it over the flames.","她生了火，火苗很低，接满了一壶水，从房顶上吊了一根绳子，一端拴在了门把手上，一端吊在了火焰上方。"
"Then she brought in Ball-Carrier, who, seeing all these preparations, wished that as long as he was in the kettle the water might not really boil, though it would hiss and bubble, and also, that the spirits would turn the water into fat.","然后她把魔球小子带了进来。小男孩一直在看女仆准备这一切，并许愿当她把他放到壶里的时候，水还没有烧开，尽管水可能热得发出嘶嘶声并且不断冒泡，还有，小精灵们能把水变成油脂。"
"The kettle soon began to sing and bubble, and Ball Carrier was lifted in.","不久，水壶便开始响了，并且不停地冒泡，魔球小子被放了进去。"
"Very soon the fat which was to make the sauce rose to the surface, and Ball-Carrier, who was bobbing about from one side to the other, called out that Lung-Woman had better taste the broth, as he though that some salt should be added to it.","不久，用来做酱的油脂浮到了表面，魔球小子被水泡从这边拱到那边。他叫喊肺女，让她最好尝一尝肉汤的味道，因为他觉得可能得加一点儿盐了。"
"The servant knew quite well that her master had forbidden her to do any thing of the kind, but when once the idea was put into her head, she found the smell from the kettle so delicious that she unhooked a long ladle from the wall and plunged it into the kettle.","女仆知道主人不让她尝肉汤，但是她动了尝一尝的念头，并且肉汤闻起来是那么美味，于是，她从墙上摘下了一个长柄勺，伸进了水壶中。"
"‘You will spill it all, if you stand so far off,’ said the boy; ‘why don’t you come a little nearer?’","“你站得那么远，会把汤都洒掉的，”男孩说道，“为什么不离得近一点儿呢？”"
" And as she did so he cried to the spirits to give him back his usual size and strength and to make the water scalding hot Then he gave the kettle a kick, which upset all the boiling water upon her, and jumping over her body he seized once more the gold and the bridge, picked up his club and bow and arrows, and after setting fire to the Bad One’s hut, ran down to the river, which he crossed safely by the help of the bridge.","当女仆靠近水壶的时候，他呼唤所有的小精灵，让他们还原他本来的身形和力量，并且让水变得滚烫。然后，他踢翻了水壶，所有的开水都浇到了女仆人的身上，跟着，他从女仆的身上跳了过去，再一次拿起了金子和桥，捡起了他的弓箭和棍棒，放了一把火，烧了坏人的家，然后朝河边跑去，用桥安全地过了河。"
"The hut, which was made of wood, was burned to the ground before the Bad One came back with a large crowd of water-demons.","木制的小屋在坏人带着一帮水怪回来之前就被烧没了。"
"There was not a sign of anyone or anything, so he started for the river, where he saw Ball Carrier sitting quietly on the other side.","看到什么都没了，坏人便朝河边赶了过去。在那里，他看到魔球小子正静静地坐在对岸。"
"Then the Bad One knew what had happened, and after telling the water demons that there would be no feast after all, he called to Ball-Carrier, who was eating an apple.","于是，坏人知道发生了什么。他告诉水怪们盛宴取消了，之后，便对正在吃苹果的魔球小子说："
"‘I know your name now,’ he said, ‘and as you have ruined me, and I am not rich any more, will you take me as your servant?’","“我现在知道你的厉害了，既然你已经毁了我的一切，我也不再富有了，你能不能让我做你的仆人呢？”"
"‘Yes, I will, though you have tried to kill me,’ answered Ball-Carrier, throwing the bridge across the water as he spoke.","“好吧，尽管你曾经试着要吃掉我。”魔球小子这样说着，把桥投在了水面上。"
"But when the Bad One was in the midst of the stream, the boy wished it to become small; and the Bad One fell into the water and was drowned, and the world was rid of him.","但是，当坏人走到水中央时，小男孩许了个愿，把桥变小了。坏人落到了水中淹死了，从此世界上再没有坏人了。"
"[U.S…Bureau of Ethnology.]","[美国……民族学局]"

