"书名牧羊人之所见：四个月夜的故事（哈代经典短篇小说）短简介圣诞节本是万人欢庆的节日，圣诞夜本是欢乐祥和的夜晚。然而，对年轻的牧羊小孩米尔斯来说并非如此。在圣诞的这一周，在三个月黑风高的夜晚，他见证了公爵、公爵夫人及公爵夫人表弟弗雷德上尉之间的爱恨情仇，并且亲眼目睹了公爵对弗雷德上尉的残酷杀戮。应公爵的要求，米尔斯始终守口如瓶，直到二十二年之后同样一个月黑风高的夜晚，真相才最终揭晓，此时这位昔日的毛头牧羊人已是人到中年。长简介哈代的短篇小说《牧羊人之所见：四个月夜的故事》借主人公之口娓娓道来，讲述了发生在四个月夜的悬疑故事。小说伊始，作者便介绍了第一位主人公：小小牧羊人。这位小小牧羊人，看似微不足道，实则是贯穿文章的主线，因为正是他那双眼眸见证了发生在公爵、公爵夫人、弗雷德上尉之间的故事。小说情节看似随兴所至、未加刻意雕琢，其实经过多处铺垫、烘托，营造了整个文章的悬疑气氛，这种气氛贯穿全文，直到二十二年之后的第四个夜晚，谜底才最后解开。小说语言简洁流畅、耐人品读。关键字牧羊人之所见；托马斯·哈代；外研社编译组；爱恨情仇；圣诞节；杀戮作者（英）托马斯·哈代作者简介托马斯·哈代（1840—1928），英国诗人、小说家。他是横跨两个世纪的作家，早期和中期的创作以小说为主，继承和发扬了维多利亚时代的文学传统；晚年以其出色的诗歌开拓了英国20世纪的文学。书评圣诞节本是万人欢庆的节日，圣诞夜本是欢乐祥和的夜晚。然而，事实并非总是如此，因为圣诞夜也见证了残酷无情的杀戮事件。"
"What the Shepherd Saw: A Tale of Four Moonlight Nights","牧羊人之所见：四个月夜的故事"
"by Thomas Hardy","作者：托马斯·哈代"
"FIRST NIGHT","第一夜"
"The genial Justice of the Peace—now, alas, no more—who made himself responsible for the facts of this story, used to begin in the good old-fashioned way with a bright moonlight night and a mysterious figure, an excellent stroke for an opening, even to this day, if well followed up.","那位和蔼可亲的治安官——唉，现在已不在人世了——对这个故事的真实性负责。他过去常用一个月光皎洁的夜晚和一位神秘的人物那种老式的套路为开头来讲述故事。这是一种极佳的故事开场手法，如果下文能展开得好的话，这种手法时至今日仍是不错的。"
"The Christmas moon (he would say) was showing her cold face to the upland, the upland reflecting the radiance in frost-sparkles so minute as only to be discernible by an eye near at hand.","圣诞的月亮（他会这么说）正冷冰冰地面向高地，高地反射出的闪闪寒光如此细微，只有附近的一只眼睛才能辨别得清。"
"This eye, he said, was the eye of a shepherd lad, young for his occupation, who stood within a wheeled hut of the kind commonly in use among sheep-keepers during the early lambing season, and was abstractedly looking through the loophole at the scene without.","这眼睛，他说，是一个年轻牧羊人的眼睛，对这一行来说，他真的是太年轻了。他站在一个带轮子的小棚子里，通过小棚子的孔洞，茫然地看着外面的景色。在产羔季节早期，牧羊人基本上都用这种小棚子。"
"The spot was called Lambing Corner, and it was a sheltered portion of that wide expanse of rough pastureland known as the Marlbury Downs, which you directly traverse when following the turnpike-road across Mid-Wessex from London, through Aldbrickham, in the direction of Bath and Bristol.","这个地方叫做产羔角，人们在这片区域盖起棚子。这里是马尔伯里丘陵地这块无边无际、高低起伏的牧场的一部分。沿着从伦敦出发、穿过威塞克斯中部的主干道，穿过阿尔德布里坎，朝着巴斯和布里斯托尔的方向前行，便会横贯马尔伯里丘陵地。"
"Here, where the hut stood, the land was high and dry, open, except to the north, and commanding an undulating view for miles.","棚子所在的地方既高又干燥，除了北边，地势很开阔，连绵起伏，无边无际。"
"On the north side grew a tall belt of coarse furze, with enormous stalks, a clump of the same standing detached in front of the general mass.","北边长着一大片粗荆豆，茎秆又高又粗大。还有一丛荆豆，与前面那一大片并不相连。"
"The clump was hollow, and the interior had been ingeniously taken advantage of as a position for the before-mentioned hut, which was thus completely screened from winds, and almost invisible, except through the narrow approach.","这一荆豆丛的中间是空的，里面得到了巧妙的利用，前面提到的那个棚子就在这里。这样，棚子不但可以避风，还很隐蔽，除非沿着狭窄的小路，否则很难看得到。"
"But the furze twigs had been cut away from the two little windows of the hut, that the occupier might keep his eye on his sheep.","但是，棚子两个小窗户旁的荆豆的细枝都被砍掉了，这样牧羊人就能盯着他的羊群。"
"In the rear, the shelter afforded by the belt of furze bushes was artificially improved by an inclosure of upright stakes, interwoven with boughs of the same prickly vegetation, and within the inclosure lay a renowned Marlbury-Down breeding flock of eight hundred ewes.","在后方，荆豆丛提供的遮蔽被人为地改进，用笔直的茎秆围了起来，与荆豆多刺的枝条相缠绕。就在这围起来的地方，圈养着由八百只著名的马尔伯里丘陵母羊组成的种羊群。"
"To the south, in the direction of the young shepherd’s idle gaze, there rose one conspicuous object above the uniform moonlit plateau, and only one.","在南面，也就是年轻的牧羊人茫然望去的方向，月光下平展的高原上耸立着一个显著的物体，仅此一个。"
"It was a Druidical trilithon, consisting of three oblong stones in the form of a doorway, two on end, and one across as a lintel.","那是一个德鲁伊教巨石牌坊，由三块长方形的石头构成了一个门的形状：两块竖着，一块横着作门楣。"
"Each stone had been worn, scratched, washed, nibbled, split, and otherwise attacked by ten thousand different weathers; but now the blocks looked shapely and little the worse for wear, so beautifully were they silvered over by the light of the moon.","每块石头都有许多磨痕、划痕和裂痕以及冲刷等逐渐受损的痕迹，此外，它们也经历了成千上万种天气地侵袭。但是现在，这几块大石头看起来外形优美，一点儿都不显得破旧不堪，银色的月光照在上面，它们显得十分漂亮。"
"The ruin was locally called the Devil’s Door.","当地人把这处遗迹称为“魔鬼门”。"
"An old shepherd presently entered the hut from the direction of the ewes, and looked around in the gloom.","不一会儿，一位老牧羊人从羊群的方向走过来，进了棚子，在阴暗中环顾四周。"
"‘Be ye sleepy?’ he asked in cross accents of the boy.","“你困了吗？”他用一种生气的语调问年轻牧羊人。"
"The lad replied rather timidly in the negative.","年轻牧羊人怯生生地作出了否定回应。"
"‘Then,’ said the shepherd, ‘I’ll get me home-along, and rest for a few hours.","“那么，”老牧羊人说，“我就回家去了，回去休息几个小时。"
"There’s nothing to be done here now as I can see.","我看这里也没什么事了。"
"The ewes can want no more tending till daybreak—’tis beyond the bounds of reason that they can.","天亮前，羊群不需要照顾，它们根本不需要照顾。"
"But as the order is that one of us must bide, I’ll leave ’ee, d’ye hear.","但是既然要求我们中有一个留在这里，那我就回去了，你听到了吧。"
"You can sleep by day, and I can’t.","你白天可以睡觉，可我不行。"
"And you can be down to my house in ten minutes if anything should happen.","如果有什么事，只要十分钟就到我家了。"
"I can’t afford ’ee candle; but, as ’tis Christmas week, and the time that folks have hollerdays, you can enjoy yerself by falling asleep a bit in the chair instead of biding awake all the time.","我可给你买不起蜡烛；但是，现在是圣诞节，人们都在过节，你可以放松一下，在椅子上睡一会儿，不用一直醒着。"
"But mind, not longer at once than while the shade of the Devil’s Door moves a couple of spans, for you must keep an eye upon the ewes.’","但是记住：你睡着的时间不要超过‘魔鬼门’的阴影移动几拃宽的时间，因为你必须看好母羊。”"
"The boy made no definite reply, and the old man, stirring the fire in the stove with his crook-stem, closed the door upon his companion and vanished.","男孩没有给出明确回答，老牧羊人用手杖拨了拨炉子里的火，为他的伙伴关上门，然后消失在了夜幕中。"
"As this had been more or less the course of events every night since the season’s lambing had set in, the boy was not at all surprised at the charge, and amused himself for some time by lighting straws at the stove.","自产羔季来临以来，这基本上成了每晚的习惯做法。要他负责看管羊群，男孩一点儿都不觉得意外，有时候他就用炉子里的火点燃稻草来自娱自乐。"
"He then went out to the ewes and new-born lambs, re-entered, sat down, and finally fell asleep.","然后，他出去看看母羊和新生的小羊羔，再回来坐下，直到最后睡着。"
"This was his customary manner of performing his watch, for though special permission for naps had this week been accorded, he had, as a matter of fact, done the same thing on every preceding night, sleeping often till awakened by a smack on the shoulder at three or four in the morning from the crook-stem of the old man.","这是他守夜时的习惯做法，尽管这周他得到特别许可，在夜里可以打几个盹，其实，之前每个晚上他都已经这么做了，每次都睡着，直到凌晨三四点老牧羊人用手杖敲打他的肩膀时才醒来。"
"It might have been about eleven o’clock when he awoke.","他这次醒来时，大概已是十一点了。"
"He was so surprised at awaking without, apparently, being called or struck, that on second thoughts he assumed that somebody must have called him in spite of appearances, and looked out of the hut window towards the sheep.","他很意外，很明显没人叫他或敲他，他竟然自己醒了。但再一想，他觉得肯定有人已经叫过他，虽然没看着人，他通过棚子的窗子向羊群望去。"
"They all lay as quiet as when he had visited them, very little bleating being audible, and no human soul disturbing the scene.","跟之前他去看的时候一样，它们都静静地卧着，几乎听不到咩咩叫的声音，也没有任何人出现打破这一安静的场面。"
"He next looked from the opposite window, and here the case was different.","接着，他从对面的窗口向外看去，这边的景象则大不相同。"
"The frost-facets glistened under the moon as before; an occasional furze bush showed as a dark spot on the same; and in the foreground stood the ghostly form of the trilithon.","和以往一样，地上的霜层在月光下晶莹发亮；一个荆豆丛在同样的地方间或投下一个黑影，幽灵般的巨石牌坊立在最显眼的地方。"
"But in front of the trilithon stood a man.","但是，巨石牌坊前站着一个男子。"
"That he was not the shepherd or any one of the farm labourers was apparent in a moment’s observation,—his dress being a dark suit, and his figure of slender build and graceful carriage.","稍加观察就会发现他明显不是老牧羊人，也不是农场工人。他身着深色外套，身形高瘦，举止优雅。"
"He walked backwards and forwards in front of the trilithon.","他在巨石牌坊前来回踱步。"
"The shepherd lad had hardly done speculating on the strangeness of the unknown’s presence here at such an hour, when he saw a second figure crossing the open sward towards the locality of the trilithon and furze-clump that screened the hut.","年轻牧羊人正在思索这个时间怎么会出现一个陌生男子，突然看见另外一个人影正穿过开阔的草地，朝着巨石牌坊和挡着棚子的荆豆丛走来。"
"This second personage was a woman; and immediately on sight of her the male stranger hastened forward, meeting her just in front of the hut window.","第二位人物是一位女性；一看到她，陌生男子便急忙上前，恰好就在棚子窗户前与她会面。"
"Before she seemed to be aware of his intention he clasped her in his arms.","她好像还没反应过来，他便已经紧紧抱住了她。"
"The lady released herself and drew back with some dignity.","那位女士从怀抱中挣脱出来，矜持地向后退了一下。"
"‘You have come, Harriet—bless you for it!’ he exclaimed, fervently.","“你来了，哈丽雅特，老天会保佑你的！”他激动地叫道。"
"‘But not for this,’ she answered, in offended accents.","“得了吧。”她回答道，语气中带着恼怒。"
"And then, more good-naturedly, ‘I have come, Fred, because you entreated me so!","然后，她用缓和一点儿的语气说道：“弗雷德，是因为你求我，我才来的！"
"What can have been the object of your writing such a letter?","你写这样一封信的目的是什么？"
"I feared I might be doing you grievous ill by staying away.","我怕我不来，对你太过分了。"
"How did you come here?’","你怎么来这里的？”"
"‘I walked all the way from my father’s.’","“我是从我父亲那里一路走过来的。”"
"‘Well, what is it?","“那么你找我有什么事？"
"How have you lived since we last met?’","自我们上次见面后，你过得怎么样？”"
"‘But roughly; you might have known that without asking.","“不怎么样。不用问你大概应该都知道吧。"
"I have seen many lands and many faces since I last walked these downs, but I have only thought of you.’","自从上次来过这个丘陵以来，我去过很多地方，见过很多人，但我心里想的却只有你。”"
"‘Is it only to tell me this that you have summoned me so strangely?’","“你半夜三更唤我来就只为告诉我这个吗？”"
"A passing breeze blew away the murmur of the reply and several succeeding sentences, till the man’s voice again became audible in the words, ‘Harriet—truth between us two!","一阵微风吹过，男子的回答声以及接下来的几句话都听不见了，直到他的声音再次变得能听见，“哈丽雅特，我们俩就坦诚相见吧！"
"I have heard that the Duke does not treat you too well.’","我听说公爵对你不太好。”"
"‘He is warm-tempered, but he is a good husband.’","“他性情急躁，但是个好丈夫。”"
"‘He speaks roughly to you, and sometimes even threatens to lock you out of doors.’","“他对你说话粗鲁，有时候甚至威胁说要把你锁在门外。”"
"‘Only once, Fred!","“只有一次，弗雷德！"
"On my honour, only once.","我以人格担保，只有一次。"
"The Duke is a fairly good husband, I repeat.","公爵是个相当好的丈夫，我再说一遍。"
"But you deserve punishment for this night’s trick of drawing me out.","但是你今晚骗我出来，应该得到惩罚。"
"What does it mean?’","到底有什么事？”"
"‘Harriet, dearest, is this fair or honest?","“我最亲爱的哈丽雅特，这是公平还是诚实呢？"
"Is it not notorious that your life with him is a sad one—that, in spite of the sweetness of your temper, the sourness of his embitters your days.","和他一起，你的日子过得很痛苦，这难道不是尽人皆知的吗？尽管你脾气很好，他脾气却那么坏。"
"I have come to know if I can help you.","我来是想知道我是否能帮你。"
"You are a Duchess, and I am Fred Ogbourne; but it is not impossible that I may be able to help you...","你是公爵夫人，我只是弗雷德·奥格本；但这并不意味着我帮不上你的忙。"
"By God! the sweetness of that tongue ought to keep him civil, especially when there is added to it the sweetness of that face!’","老天作证！就凭你甜美的言辞，他都应该对你彬彬有礼，再加上你那甜美的脸蛋，他更应该对你好了！”"
"‘Captain Ogbourne!’ she exclaimed, with an emphasis of playful fear.","“奥格本上尉！”她喊道，语气中流露着恐惧，又夹杂着调皮，"
"‘How can such a comrade of my youth behave to me as you do?","“你和我一般年轻，怎么能这样待我呢？"
"Don’t speak so, and stare at me so!","别这么说话，也别这么盯着我看！"
"Is this really all you have to say?","这真的是所有你想说的吗？"
"I see I ought not to have come.","我想我不应该来。"
"’Twas thoughtlessly done.’","我太轻率了。”"
"Another breeze broke the thread of discourse for a time.","又一阵微风吹过，有一段时间，两人的谈话听不见了。"
"‘Very well.","“很好。"
"I perceive you are dead and lost to me,’ he could next be heard to say, ‘“Captain Ogbourne” proves that.","我感觉你已死了，我失去了你，”等下，又听到他说道，“‘奥格本上尉’证明了这一点。"
"As I once loved you I love you now, Harriet, without one jot of abatement; but you are not the woman you were—you once were honest towards me; and now you conceal your heart in made-up speeches.","我过去爱你，现在还爱着你，哈丽雅特，我对你的爱没有丝毫消退。但你已经不是过去的你了，过去，你对我很坦诚，可是现在，你却用虚伪的言辞将你的内心隐藏起来。"
"Let it be: I can never see you again.’","就这样吧，我能与你永不相见。”"
"‘You need not say that in such a tragedy tone, you silly.","“你没必要说得那么悲伤，你这个傻瓜。"
"You may see me in an ordinary way—why should you not?","你可以用平常的眼光看我——你为什么不这样呢？"
"But, of course, not in such a way as this.","但是，当然不是以这样一种方式。"
"I should not have come now, if it had not happened that the Duke is away from home, so that there is nobody to check my erratic impulses.’","我真不该来，还不是因为公爵恰巧不在家，所以没人压制我这种奇怪的冲动。”"
"‘When does he return?’","“他什么时候回来？”"
"‘The day after to-morrow, or the day after that.’","“后天或者大后天。”"
"‘Then meet me again to-morrow night.’","“那明晚再来见我吧。”"
"‘No, Fred, I cannot.’","“不，弗雷德，我不能。”"
"‘If you cannot to-morrow night, you can the night after; one of the two before he comes please bestow on me.","“如果明天晚上你不能来，可以后天晚上来；离公爵回来还有两个晚上，请在其中一个晚上来见见我吧。"
"Now, your hand upon it!","把你的手给我！"
"To-morrow or next night you will see me to bid me farewell!’","明天晚上或后天晚上来跟我告别吧！”"
" He seized the Duchess’s hand.","他抓住了公爵夫人的手。"
"‘No, but Fred—let go my hand!","“不，弗雷德，放开我的手！"
"What do you mean by holding me so?","你这么抓着我是什么意思呢？"
"If it be love to forget all respect to a woman’s present position in thinking of her past, then yours may be so, Frederick.","如果说爱，只是想着一个女人的过去，而忘了尊重她现在的情况，那你的爱就是这样的，弗雷德里克。"
"It is not kind and gentle of you to induce me to come to this place for pity of you, and then to hold me tight here.’","由于同情你，我被你骗到这里来，你又这样紧抓着我，你太不友好、太不温和了。”"
"‘But see me once more!","“但是，再来见我一次吧！"
"I have come two thousand miles to ask it.’","我赶了两千英里路就是来求你见我的！”"
"‘O, I must not!","“噢，我不能再见你了！"
"There will be slanders—Heaven knows what!","肯定会有流言蜚语——上天会知道！"
"I cannot meet you.","我不能再来见你了。"
"For the sake of old times don’t ask it.’","求你看在我们的旧交情的份上，别再让我来见你了。”"
"‘Then own two things to me; that you did love me once, and that your husband is unkind to you often enough now to make you think of the time when you cared for me.’","“那你向我承认两件事吧：第一，你的确爱过我；第二，现在你丈夫经常对你不好，所以你常想到过去你喜欢我的时候。”"
"‘Yes—I own them both,’ she answered faintly.","“是的，我都承认，”她有气无力地回答道，"
"‘But owning such as that tells against me; and I swear the inference is not true.’","“但是如果承认这些对我不利的话，我发誓这种推断不是真的。”"
"‘Don’t say that; for you have come—let me think the reason of your coming what I like to think it.","“别这么说，既然你来了，就让我按自己的想法想你来的原因吧。"
"It can do you no harm.","不会对你有什么害处的。"
"Come once more!’","再来见我一次吧！”"
"He still held her hand and waist.","他仍然抓着她的手，扶着她的腰。"
"‘Very well, then,’ she said.","“那好吧，”她说，"
"‘Thus far you shall persuade me.","“你只能说服我到此为止了。"
"I will meet you to-morrow night or the night after.","我明天晚上或后天晚上来见你。"
"Now, let me go.’","现在，放开我吧。”"
"He released her, and they parted.","他放开她，然后彼此分开了。"
"The Duchess ran rapidly down the hill towards the outlying mansion of Shakeforest Towers, and when he had watched her out of sight, he turned and strode off in the opposite direction.","公爵夫人快速跑下山坡，朝着谢科福里斯特塔外侧的房子跑去。男子注视着公爵夫人，直到她消失在视野中，便转过身，向相反的方向大步走去。"
"All then was silent and empty as before.","一切又重归寂静、空旷的状态。"
"Yet it was only for a moment.","但这种状态只持续了片刻。"
"When they had quite departed, another shape appeared upon the scene.","当他们完全离开时，另外一个人影出现了。"
"He came from behind the trilithon.","他是从巨石牌坊后面走出来的。"
"He was a man of stouter build than the first, and wore the boots and spurs of a horseman.","这也是一位男子，体格比之前那位结实，穿着马靴和马刺。"
"Two things were at once obvious from this phenomenon: that he had watched the interview between the Captain and the Duchess; and that, though he probably had seen every movement of the couple, including the embrace, he had been too remote to hear the reluctant words of the lady’s conversation—or, indeed, any words at all—so that the meeting must have exhibited itself to his eye as the assignation of a pair of well-agreed lovers.","马上有两件事情是显而易见的：第一，他目睹了上尉和公爵夫人的整个对话过程；第二，虽然他很可能目睹了他们二人的一举一动，包括拥抱，但是他离得太远了，没听清谈话过程中公爵夫人勉强的话语——或者，他根本就没听清什么——所以，这次会面在他看来就是两情相悦的恋人之间的一次幽会。"
"But it was necessary that several years should elapse before the shepherd-boy was old enough to reason out this.","但是，只有再过几年，等年轻的牧羊人足够成熟了，才能推理出这些。"
"The third individual stood still for a moment, as if deep in meditation.","第三个人静静地站了一会，仿佛在沉思。"
"He crossed over to where the lady and gentleman had stood, and looked at the ground; then he too turned and went away in a third direction, as widely divergent as possible from those taken by the two interlocutors.","他走到那位女士和绅士之先前的地方，看着地面；然后，他也转过身，朝着第三个方向离去了，这一方向与前面两位谈话者离去的方向相差特别远。"
"His course was towards the highway; and a few minutes afterwards the trot of a horse might have been heard upon its frosty surface, lessening till it died away upon the ear.","他朝着大路的方向离去了；几分钟后，结了霜的公路地面上或许传来了马蹄声，直到后来慢慢消失在耳际。"
"The boy remained in the hut, confronting the trilithon as if he expected yet more actors on the scene, but nobody else appeared.","男孩仍呆在棚子里，脸朝着巨石方碑，好像在期待还有更多的演员登场，然而，没有人在出现。"
"How long he stood with his little face against the loophole he hardly knew; but he was rudely awakened from his reverie by a punch in his back, and in the feel of it he familiarly recognized the stem of the old shepherd’s crook.","他不记得自己在那里站了多久，将自己小小的脸庞贴在棚子的孔洞里向外望；但是，有人在他背上打了一下，他从遐想中突然醒了过来，他立马就觉察出了老牧羊人那熟悉的手杖柄。"
"‘Blame thy young eyes and limbs, Bill Mills—now you have let the fire out, and you know I want it kept in!","“都怪你稚嫩的眼睛和四肢，比尔·米尔斯，现在炉子里的火熄灭了，你知道我不想让灭了。"
"I thought something would go wrong with ’ee up here, and I couldn’t bide in bed no more than thistledown on the wind, that I could not!","想着你在这里肯定会出什么错，我就没法再睡觉了，就像蓟花的冠毛想要逆风飞翔那么困难，我没法再睡觉了！"
"Well, what’s happened, fie upon ’ee?’","那么，呸，发生什么事了？”"
"‘Nothing.’","“什么事都没发生。”"
"‘Ewes all as I left ’em?’","“母羊还是我离开时的样子吗？”"
"‘Yes.’","“是的。”"
"‘Any lambs want bringing in?’","“有要产羔的吗？”"
"‘No.’","“没有。”"
"The shepherd relit the fire, and went out among the sheep with a lantern, for the moon was getting low.","老牧羊人重新生了火，提着一盏灯笼出去查看羊群，因为月亮渐渐西沉了。"
"Soon he came in again.","他很快又回来了。"
"‘Blame it all—thou’st say that nothing have happened; when one ewe have twinned and is like to go off, and another is dying for want of half an eye of looking to!","“该死——你刚刚还说什么事都没发生；一只母羊生了孪生羊羔快不行了，另一只母羊由于缺乏照料也快死了！”"
"I told ’ee, Bill Mills, if anything went wrong to come down and call me; and this is how you have done it.’","我告诉过你，比尔·米尔斯，如果有什么事，就下山来叫我；看看你干的好事。”"
"‘You said I could go to sleep for a hollerday, and I did.’","“你说今天过节，我可以去睡觉，我照你说的办了。”"
"‘Don’t you speak to your betters like that, young man, or you’ll come to the gallows-tree!","“别这么跟长辈说话，年轻人，不然你就该上绞刑架！"
"You didn’t sleep all the time, or you wouldn’t have been peeping out of that there hole!","你肯定没有一直睡觉，要不然你就不会从窗眼向外看了！"
"Now you can go home, and be up here again by breakfast-time.","现在你可以回家了，到早饭时间再回来。"
"I be an old man, and there’s old men that deserve well of the world; but no I—must rest how I can!’","我是老人，老人就该得到好的待遇；但是我却不能休息。"
"The elder shepherd then lay down inside the hut, and the boy went down the hill to the hamlet where he dwelt.","老牧羊人然后在小棚子里躺了下来，男孩走下山，朝着他住的小村庄走去。"
"SECOND NIGHT","第二夜"
"When the next night drew on the actions of the boy were almost enough to show that he was thinking of the meeting he had witnessed, and of the promise wrung from the lady that she would come there again.","第二个晚上来临时，男孩的行动几乎足以表明，他在想着前一天晚上看到的会面以及那位女士被迫答应再来的承诺。"
"As far as the sheep-tending arrangements were concerned, to-night was but a repetition of the foregoing one.","至于照看羊群的安排，今晚只不过是重复之前的惯例而已。"
"Between ten and eleven o’clock the old shepherd withdrew as usual for what sleep at home he might chance to get without interruption, making up the other necessary hours of rest at some time during the day; the boy was left alone.","十点到十一点之间，老牧羊人像往常一样回家了，去睡个不受打扰的好觉，以补上白天某个时候的休息时间。又只剩下男孩一个人了。"
"The frost was the same as on the night before, except perhaps that it was a little more severe.","跟前一天晚上一样，又落了霜，或许只是稍微多一点儿而已。"
"The moon shone as usual, except that it was three-quarters of an hour later in its course; and the boy’s condition was much the same, except that he felt no sleepiness whatever.","月光像往常一样洒在大地上，只是今晚月亮出来的时间晚了三刻钟；男孩的情况也基本上跟以往一样，只是他一点儿都不觉得瞌睡了。"
"He felt, too, rather afraid; but upon the whole he preferred witnessing an assignation of strangers to running the risk of being discovered absent by the old shepherd.","他也感到有点儿害怕；但是总体而言，他宁愿冒着被老牧羊人发现他旷工的风险，也要目睹一对陌生人的幽会。"
"It was before the distant clock of Shakeforest Towers had struck eleven that he observed the opening of the second act of this midnight drama.","就在远处谢克福里斯特塔十一点的钟声敲响之前，男孩目睹了这出午夜剧第二场的开幕。"
"It consisted in the appearance of neither lover nor Duchess, but of the third figure—the stout man, booted and spurred—who came up from the easterly direction in which he had retreated the night before.","出场的既不是情人也不是公爵夫人，而是第三位人物——那位身体结实、穿着马靴和马刺的男人——他从东边走来，那正是前一晚他离去的方向。"
"He walked once round the trilithon, and next advanced towards the clump concealing the hut, the moonlight shining full upon his face and revealing him to be the Duke.","他绕着巨石牌坊踱了一圈，然后朝着遮掩棚子的荆豆丛走去，月光照在他脸上，原来是公爵。"
"Fear seized upon the shepherd-boy: the Duke was Jove himself to the rural population, whom to offend was starvation, homelessness, and death, and whom to look at was to be mentally scathed and dumbfoundered.","牧羊男孩心中充满了恐惧：对当地的乡民来说，公爵就是主神，冒犯他就要忍受饥饿、无家可归以及死亡的折磨，直视他就会神志受损、精神错乱。"
"He closed the stove, so that not a spark of light appeared, and hastily buried himself in the straw that lay in a corner.","男孩封上炉子，这样就不会有一丝光出现了，然后他急忙钻进了角落里的草堆里。"
"The Duke came close to the clump of furze and stood by the spot where his wife and the Captain had held their dialogue; he examined the furze as if searching for a hiding-place, and in doing so discovered the hut.","公爵来到荆豆丛跟前，站在他妻子和上尉前一天晚上交谈的地方；他仔细打量着荆豆丛，好像在找一个藏身之处，就在这时，他发现了棚子。"
"The latter he walked round and then looked inside; finding it to all seeming empty, he entered, closing the door behind him and taking his place at the little circular window against which the boy’s face had been pressed just before.","公爵绕着棚子走了一圈，然后朝里看去；他发现棚子好像是空的，便走了进去，关上门，呆在了圆形小窗户前，之前男孩曾把脸贴在那里。"
"The Duke had not adopted his measures too rapidly, if his object were concealment.","如果公爵的目的就是藏起来的话，那他的动作并不是很快。"
"Almost as soon as he had stationed himself there eleven o’clock struck, and the slender young man who had previously graced the scene promptly reappeared from the north quarter of the down.","公爵基本上刚刚在那里藏好，十一点的钟声就敲响了，前一天晚上驾临这里的那位身材高瘦的年轻男子马上就出现了，他是从丘陵的北边来的。"
"The spot of assignation having, by the accident of his running forward on the foregoing night, removed itself from the Devil’s Door to the clump of furze, he instinctively came thither, and waited for the Duchess where he had met her before.","由于前一天晚上上尉不经意的跑动，幽会的地点从“魔鬼门”转移到了荆豆丛旁。这次他自然而然就来到了那里，在前一天晚上会面的地点等待公爵夫人。"
"But a fearful surprise was in store for him to-night, as well as for the trembling juvenile.","但是今晚，一个恐怖的意外正在等待上尉和那位浑身颤抖的少年。"
"At his appearance the Duke breathed more and more quickly, his breathings being distinctly audible to the crouching boy.","上尉一出现，公爵的呼吸便越来越急促，男孩蜷缩在那里，可以清晰地听到公爵的呼吸声。"
"The young man had hardly paused when the alert nobleman softly opened the door of the hut, and, stepping round the furze, came full upon Captain Fred.","还没等年轻的上尉停下脚步，警觉的公爵便轻轻推开了棚子的门，绕过荆豆丛，朝着弗雷德上尉扑了过去。"
"‘You have dishonoured her, and you shall die the death you deserve!’ came to the shepherd’s ears, in a harsh, hollow whisper through the boarding of the hut.","“你让她名誉受损，你该死！”这句严厉而又低沉的私语穿过棚子的木板墙，传到了男孩耳边。"
"The apathetic and taciturn boy was excited enough to run the risk of rising and looking from the window, but he could see nothing for the intervening furze boughs, both the men having gone round to the side.","一向沉默寡言、对一切缺乏兴趣的男孩内心激动不已，便冒险站了起来，从窗户向外看。但是，荆豆枝挡在那里，他什么都看不见，公爵和上尉都绕到了荆豆丛的另一面。"
"What took place in the few following moments he never exactly knew.","接下来几分钟里到底发生了什么事，男孩从未完全清楚过。"
"He discerned portion of a shadow in quick muscular movement; then there was the fall of something on the grass; then there was stillness.","他隐约看到了一个人影迅速而有力的动作；然后有什么东西倒在了草地上；之后一切又恢复了寂静。"
"Two or three minutes later the Duke became visible round the corner of the hut, dragging by the collar the now inert body of the second man.","两三分钟后，男孩看到公爵出现在棚子的一角，拽着第二位男子的衣领，那位男子现在已经一动不动了。"
"The Duke dragged him across the open space towards the trilithon.","公爵拖着他穿过空地，朝巨石牌坊走去。"
"Behind this ruin was a hollow, irregular spot, overgrown with furze and stunted thorns, and riddled by the old holes of badgers, its former inhabitants, who had now died out or departed.","巨石牌坊遗迹后面是一块凹凸不平的洼地，长满了荆豆和低矮的荆棘，到处都是獾或之前其他动物的旧洞穴，这些动物现在要么灭绝了，要么离开了这里。"
"The Duke vanished into this depression with his burden, reappearing after the lapse of a few seconds.","公爵拖着那位男子进了洼地，消失不见了。几秒钟后，他又出来了。"
"When he came forth he dragged nothing behind him.","他出来时没拖任何东西。"
"He returned to the side of the hut, cleansed something on the grass, and again put himself on the watch, though not as before, inside the hut, but without, on the shady side.","他回到棚子跟前，清理了草地上的一些东西，然后再一次观察周围。他不再像先前那样仔细观察棚子里面了，而是盯着棚子外面阴影的一面。"
"‘Now for the second!’ he said.","“现在该第二个人了！”他说。"
"It was plain, even to the unsophisticated boy, that he now awaited the other person of the appointment—his wife, the Duchess—for what purpose it was terrible to think.","有一点很明显，就连那个单纯的男孩都看得出来，那就是公爵现在正等待着约会的另一方出现——也就是他的妻子，公爵夫人，他这么做的目的想想都觉得可怕。"
"He seemed to be a man of such determined temper that he would scarcely hesitate in carrying out a course of revenge to the bitter end.","他看起来是一个脾气很倔的人，当要进行报复时会毫不犹豫，不到最后决不罢休。"
"Moreover—though it was what the shepherd did not perceive—this was all the more probable, in that the moody Duke was labouring under the exaggerated impression which the sight of the meeting in dumb show had conveyed.","另外——尽管这一点牧羊人并没察觉——这一点可能性很大，那就是公爵情绪低落，他前一天晚上看到妻子和另一个男子会面，但没听到对话内容，那出哑剧传达给他的印象是被夸大了的，他明显深受受害。"
"The jealous watcher waited long, but he waited in vain.","这位嫉妒的旁观者等了好久，却徒劳无功。"
"From within the hut the boy could hear his occasional exclamations of surprise, as if he were almost disappointed at the failure of his assumption that his guilty Duchess would surely keep the tryst.","男孩在棚子里可以听到公爵不时发出的惊叹声，仿佛为自己预计错误而失望，他之前预计自己那位罪孽的夫人肯定会来赴约的。"
"Sometimes he stepped from the shade of the furze into the moonlight, and held up his watch to learn the time.","有时他走出荆豆丛的阴影，走到月光下，抬起手腕看看时间。"
"About half-past eleven he seemed to give up expecting her.","大概十一点半的时候，他似乎放弃了继续等她的念头。"
"He then went a second time to the hollow behind the trilithon, remaining there nearly a quarter of an hour.","然后，他又去了巨石牌坊后面的洼地，在那里呆了将近一刻钟。"
"From this place he proceeded quickly over a shoulder of the declivity, a little to the left, presently returning on horseback, which proved that his horse had been tethered in some secret place down there.","在那里他朝着微微向左的方向，迅速走下了一个倾斜的山肩，然后上了马背，这也证明他的马就拴在那里某个隐秘的地方。"
"Crossing anew the down between the hut and the trilithon, and scanning the precincts as if finally to assure himself that she had not come, he rode slowly downwards in the direction of Shakeforest Towers.","他骑着马再次穿过棚子和巨石牌坊之间的丘陵地，扫视着周围，仿佛最后确认一遍妻子的确没来，然后慢慢骑马下了丘陵地，朝着谢科福里斯特塔走去。"
"The juvenile shepherd thought of what lay in the hollow yonder; and no fear of the crook-stem of his superior officer was potent enough to detain him longer on that hill alone.","这位年少的牧羊人想到了那边洼地里躺着的东西，即使再怕老牧羊人用手杖柄敲他，他也不敢独自一人再呆在山上了。"
"Any live company, even the most terrible, was better than the company of the dead; so, running with the speed of a hare in the direction pursued by the horseman, he overtook the revengeful Duke at the second descent (where the great western road crossed before you came to the old park entrance on that side—now closed up and the lodge cleared away, though at the time it was wondered why, being considered the most convenient gate of all).","任何有生命的伙伴，即使是最恐怖的，也要好过有一具死尸为伴。想到这，男孩像野兔一样，向公爵和马的方向飞奔而去，跑到第二个斜坡时，他赶上了一心想要报仇的公爵（在来到旧公园那一侧的入口以前，那条宽阔的西部公路从这里穿过；旧公园的那个入口现在关闭了，门房也不在了，尽管当时人们都猜测到底是为什么，因为大家认为那是公园最方便的一个入口）。"
"Once within the sound of the horse’s footsteps, Bill Mills felt comparatively comfortable; for, though in awe of the Duke because of his position, he had no moral repugnance to his companionship on account of the grisly deed he had committed, considering that powerful nobleman to have a right to do what he chose on his own lands.","一听到马蹄声，比尔·米尔斯就感觉好多了；虽然他对公爵感到敬畏，因为他地位高，但是，他并没有因为公爵之前的恐怖行为而厌恶与他为伴，因为他觉得这位有权有势的贵族有权在在自己的领地内干任何事。"
"The Duke rode steadily on beneath his ancestral trees, the hoofs of his horse sending up a smart sound now that he had reached the hard road of the drive, and soon drew near the front door of his house, surmounted by parapets with square-cut battlements that cast a notched shade upon the gravelled terrace.","公爵骑着马在他祖上留下的树下稳步向前，马蹄踩在车道坚硬的路面上，发出悦耳的声音。很快，公爵便到达了自己的官邸前门，官邸前面围着矮墙，墙顶上方方正正的城垛，在砾石铺成的路面上投下了不规则的影子。"
"These outlines were quite familiar to little Bill Mills, though nothing within their boundary had ever been seen by him.","年轻的比尔·米尔斯对这些轮廓都比较熟悉，尽管他从未看到过围墙内的任何东西。"
"When the rider approached the mansion a small turret door was quickly opened and a woman came out.","当骑马人接近房子的时候，小塔楼的一扇门马上就开了，一个女人走了出来。"
"As soon as she saw the horseman’s outlines she ran forward into the moonlight to meet him.","她一看到骑马人的轮廓，就向前跑到月光下来接他。"
"‘Ah dear—and are you come?’ she said.","“啊，亲爱的，你回来了？”她说道，"
"‘I heard Hero’s tread just when you rode over the hill, and I knew it in a moment.","“你们翻过山的时候，我听到了英雄（马的名字）的蹄声，我马上就知道了。"
"I would have come further if I had been aware—’","我会去远点儿的地方迎你的，倘若我知道——”"
"‘Glad to see me, eh?’","“很高兴见到我，是不是？”"
"‘How can you ask that?’","“你怎么这么问呢？”"
"‘Well; it is a lovely night for meetings.’","“嗯，这可是一个美好的晚上，很适合幽会。”"
"‘Yes, it is a lovely night.’","“是的，这是一个美好的晚上。”"
"The Duke dismounted and stood by her side.","公爵下了马，站在她旁边。"
"‘Why should you have been listening at this time of night, and yet not expecting me?’ he asked.","“为什么这么晚了你还在听外面的动静，却没在等我？”他问道。"
"‘Why, indeed!","“哎，的确！"
"There is a strange story attached to that, which I must tell you at once.","的确有一个不寻常的故事，我必须马上告诉你。"
"But why did you come a night sooner than you said you would come?","但是你为什么提前一晚上回来了呢？"
"I am rather sorry—I really am!’ (shaking her head playfully) ‘for as a surprise to you I had ordered a bonfire to be built, which was to be lighted on your arrival to-morrow; and now it is wasted.","我有点儿遗憾——真的很遗憾！”（她顽皮地摇着头）“为了给你一个惊喜，我命人点一堆篝火，但是是等你明晚到了才点的；现在全浪费了。"
"You can see the outline of it just out there.’","你在那里可以看到火堆。”"
"The Duke looked across to a spot of rising glade, and saw the faggots in a heap.","公爵望向林中突起的一块空地，看到了一堆柴。"
"He then bent his eyes with a bland and puzzled air on the ground, ‘What is this strange story you have to tell me that kept you awake?’ he murmured.","然后，他用温和、迷惑的眼神看着地面：“你一直醒着、想要告诉我的不寻常的故事是什么呢？”他低声问道。"
"‘It is this—and it is really rather serious.","“是这样——的确挺严重的。"
"My cousin Fred Ogbourne—Captain Ogbourne as he is now—was in his boyhood a great admirer of mine, as I think I have told you, though I was six years his senior.","我表弟弗雷德·奥格本——他现在是弗雷德·奥格本上尉——从小就是我的爱慕者，尽管我比他年长六岁，我想我应该跟你说过。"
"In strict truth, he was absurdly fond of me.’","说老实话，他当时简直是疯狂地喜欢我。”"
"‘You have never told me of that before.’","“你之前从没跟我说过。”"
"‘Then it was your sister I told—yes, it was.","“那我就是跟你姐姐说过——是的，我跟她说过。"
"Well, you know I have not seen him for many years, and naturally I had quite forgotten his admiration of me in old times.","嗯，你知道我已经好多年没见他了，自然也就忘了他过去曾经仰慕我这回事。"
"But guess my surprise when the day before yesterday, I received a mysterious note bearing no address, and found on opening it that it came from him.","就在前天，我收到了一封神秘的短信，没写寄信人地址，等我打开了才知道是他写给我的，你猜我当时感到多吃惊。"
"The contents frightened me out of my wits.","信的内容把我的魂都吓掉了。"
"He had returned from Canada to his father’s house, and conjured me by all he could think of to meet him at once.","他从加拿大回来了，回到了他父亲家，千方百计求我马上和他见面。"
"But I think I can repeat the exact words, though I will show it to you when we get indoors.","但我觉得我还可以重复他信中的原话，不过待会等我们进屋了，我会把信给你看。"
"“MY DEAR COUSIN HARRIET,” the note said, “After this long absence you will be surprised at my sudden reappearance, and more by what I am going to ask.","‘我亲爱的表姐，哈丽雅特，'信中写到，‘我消失这么久，然后突然出现，你肯定很吃惊吧，我接下来要求肯定会让你更吃惊。"
"But if my life and future are of any concern to you at all, I beg that you will grant my request.","但是，如果你关心我的生活及我的未来的话，那我求你答应我的要求。"
"What I require of you, is, dear Harriet, that you meet me about eleven to-night by the Druid stones on Marlbury Downs, about a mile or more from your house.","我想求你的是，亲爱的哈丽雅特，今晚十一点左右去马尔伯里丘陵地上的德鲁伊教巨石牌坊前见我，那里离你们家大概一英里多。"
"I cannot say more, except to entreat you to come.","我没法再多说了，只求你来见我。"
"I will explain all when you are there.","你去了我会跟你解释一切的。"
"The one thing is, I want to see you.","只有一件事，那就是我想见你。"
"Come alone.","就你一个人来。"
"Believe me, I would not ask this if my happiness did not hang upon it—God knows how entirely!","相信我，倘若这跟我的幸福无关的话，我绝对不会要求你的。天知道这对我的幸福有多重要！"
"I am too agitated to say more—Yours. FRED.”","我太激动了，没法多说了——你最亲爱的弗雷德。’"
"‘That was all of it.","就这些。"
"Now, of course I ought have gone, as it turned out, but that I did not think of then.","嗯，当然我应该去，事实也是如此，但是当时我没想到。"
"I remembered his impetuous temper, and feared that something grievous was impending over his head, while he had not a friend in the world to help him, or any one except myself to whom he would care to make his trouble known.","我记得他做事冲动，我怕他心里有什么不好的念头，因为在这世上他没有一个朋友能帮他，除了我，他也不愿别人知道自己的麻烦事。"
"So I wrapped myself up and went to Marlbury Downs at the time he had named.","所以我穿上暖和的衣服，在他告诉我的时间去了马尔伯里丘陵地。"
"Don’t you think I was courageous?’","难道你不觉得我很勇敢吗？”"
"‘Very.’","“很勇敢。”"
"‘When I got there—but shall we not walk on; it is getting cold?’","“我到那里时——有点儿冷，我们不该往前走吗？”"
"The Duke, however, did not move.","然而，公爵没动一步。"
"‘When I got there he came, of course, as a full grown man and officer, and not as the lad that I had known him.","“我到那里时，他已经来了，当然，他已经完全长大了，成了一位军官，不再是我所熟悉的那个小伙子。"
"When I saw him I was sorry I had come.","等我见到他时，我后悔我去见他了。"
"I can hardly tell you how he behaved.","我都无法向你表述他的举动。"
"What he wanted I don’t know even now; it seemed to be no more than the mere meeting with me.","他想怎么样，我到现在也不知道；他看起来好像只想见我。"
"He held me by the hand and waist—O so tight—and would not let me go till I had promised to meet him again.","他抓着我的手，揽着我的腰——噢，很紧——直到我答应再去见他，他才肯放手。"
"His manner was so strange and passionate that I was afraid of him in such a lonely place, and I promised to come.","他表现得那么奇怪，那么热烈，在那样人迹罕至的地方我都怕他了，所以我答应再去见他。"
"Then I escaped—then I ran home—and that’s all.","然后，我逃脱了——然后我跑回了家——这就是故事的全部。"
"When the time drew on this evening for the appointment—which, of course, I never intended to keep, I felt uneasy, lest when he found I meant to disappoint him he would come on to the house; and that’s why I could not sleep.","今晚，离约会的时间越来越近——当然，我绝对没想去赴这次约会——我就越感到不安，我怕他发现我存心让他失望后，会跑到家里来；这就是我为什么没睡觉的原因。"
"But you are so silent!’","但是你好安静！”"
"‘I have had a long journey.’","“我经历了一个很长的旅途。”"
"‘Then let us get into the house.","“那我们去屋里吧。"
"Why did you come alone and unattended like this?’","为什么没人照料你，你独自一人回来了？”"
"‘It was my humour.’","“我想一个人回来。”"
"After a moment’s silence, during which they moved on, she said, ‘I have thought of something which I hardly like to suggest to you.","接下来一片安静，两人继续往前走，过了一会儿，她又说道，“我想到了一些事，但是我不敢向你提议。"
"He said that if I failed to come to-night he would wait again to-morrow night.","他说如果我今晚没去见他，那他明晚还会等我。"
"Now, shall we to-morrow night go to the hill together—just to see if he is there; and if he is, read him a lesson on his foolishness in nourishing this old passion, and sending for me so oddly, instead of coming to the house?’","那么，明天晚上，我们能不能一起去山上，就看看他是不是在那里；如果他在那里，你就教训他几句，教训他太愚蠢，重提小时候的感情，没来我们家里，而是以那么奇怪的方式约我出去？”"
"‘Why should we see if he’s there?’ said her husband moodily.","“为什么要去看看他在不在那里呢？”公爵情绪不稳地说道。"
"‘Because I think we ought to do something in it.","“因为我觉得我们应该做点儿什么。"
"Poor Fred!","可怜的弗雷德！"
"He would listen to you if you reasoned with him, and set our positions in their true light before him.","如果你跟他讲道理，并且在他面前亮明我们俩的立场，他会听你的话的。"
"It would be no more than Christian kindness to a man who unquestionably is very miserable from some cause or other.","就像基督对一个因为某种原因而处于悲惨状况的人表现出仁慈那样。"
"His head seems quite turned.’","他好像有点儿昏了头。”"
"By this time they had reached the door, rung the bell, and waited.","这时，他们到了门跟前，按了门铃，然后等待着。"
"All the house seemed to be asleep; but soon a man came to them, the horse was taken away, and the Duke and Duchess went in.","整个屋子好像都在沉睡；不过很快就出来了一个男人，牵走了马，公爵和公爵夫人走了进去。"
"THIRD NIGHT","第三夜"
"There was no help for it.","真是毫无办法。"
"Bill Mills was obliged to stay on duty, in the old shepherd’s absence, this evening as before, or give up his post and living.","老牧羊人不在的时候，比尔·米尔斯必须要当班守夜，这天晚上也不例外，除非他放弃自己的岗位和生计。"
"He thought as bravely as he could of what lay behind the Devil’s Door, but with no great success, and was therefore in a measure relieved, even if awe-stricken, when he saw the forms of the Duke and Duchess strolling across the frosted greensward.","他尽量放大胆子，想象“魔鬼门”后面躺着的东西，但是，徒劳无功。因此，当他看到公爵和公爵夫人漫步穿过结了霜的绿草地的时候，即使有一些敬畏，但在一定程度上感到轻松多了。"
"The Duchess was a few yards in front of her husband and tripped on lightly.","公爵夫人在她丈夫前面几码的地方，轻快地向前走着。"
"‘I tell you he has not thought it worth while to come again!’ the Duke insisted, as he stood still, reluctant to walk further.","“我跟你说了，他肯定觉得不值得再来了！”公爵坚持地说，他一动不动地站着，不愿再往前走了。"
"‘He is more likely to come and wait all night; and it would be harsh treatment to let him do it a second time.’","“他很可能会来，而且彻夜等我；让他再这样做一次的话，真是太无情了。”"
"‘He is not here; so turn and come home.’","“他不在这里，我们掉头回家吧。”"
"‘He seems not to be here, certainly; I wonder if anything has happened to him.","“的确，他好像不在这里；我想知道他是不是发生什么事了。"
"If it has, I shall never forgive myself!’","如果的确发生什么事了，那我永远都不会原谅我自己！”"
"The Duke, uneasily, ‘O, no.","公爵不安地说道，“噢，不。"
"He has some other engagement.’","他被其他事耽搁了。”"
"‘That is very unlikely.’","“不太可能。”"
"‘Or perhaps he has found the distance too far.’","“或者他觉得这里太远了。”"
"‘Nor is that probable.’","“那也不可能。”"
"‘Then he may have thought better of it.’","“那么他肯定是想通了，改变主意了。”"
"‘Yes, he may have thought better of it; if, indeed, he is not here all the time—somewhere in the hollow behind the Devil’s Door.","“是的，他可能想通了，改变主意了；的确，如果他一直都不在这里的话，那他可能在“魔鬼门”后面的洼地里。"
"Let us go and see; it will serve him right to surprise him.’","我们去看看吧；那他活该感到吃惊。”"
"‘O, he’s not there.’","“噢，他不在那里。”"
"‘He may be lying very quiet because of you,’ she said archly.","“他或许因为你在而静静地躺着呢，”她调皮地说道。"
"‘O, no—not because of me!’","“噢，不，绝不会因为我！”"
"‘Come, then.","“那么，来吧。"
"I declare, dearest, you lag like an unwilling schoolboy to-night, and there’s no responsiveness in you!","亲爱的，我不得不说，你今晚就像厌学的学生那样，走得很慢，你根本就没什么同情心！"
"You are jealous of that poor lad, and it is quite absurd of you.’","你嫉妒那个可怜的小伙子，你真是太荒唐了。”"
"‘I’ll come!","“我来了！"
"I’ll come!","我来了！"
"Say no more, Harriet!’","别说了，哈丽雅特！”"
" And they crossed over the green.","然后，他们穿过了绿草地。"
"Wondering what they would do, the young shepherd left the hut, and doubled behind the belt of furze, intending to stand near the trilithon unperceived.","男孩想知道他们接下来会做什么，便离开了棚子，躬身藏在荆豆丛后面，想偷偷地站在巨石牌坊跟前。"
"But, in crossing the few yards of open ground he was for a moment exposed to view.","但是，在穿过那几码宽的空地的时候，他有一会儿是暴露在月光下的。"
"‘Ah, I see him at last!’ said the Duchess.","“啊，我终于看见他了！”公爵夫人说道。"
"‘See him!’ said the Duke.","“看见他了！”公爵说。"
"‘Where?’","“在哪？”"
"‘By the Devil’s Door; don’t you notice a figure there?","“在‘魔鬼门’旁边，你没看到那里有个人影吗？"
"Ah, my poor lover-cousin, won’t you catch it now?’","啊，我可怜的表弟，你现在还没看见吗？”"
"And she laughed half-pityingly.","她半同情地笑着。"
"‘But what’s the matter?’ she asked, turning to her husband.","“但是，怎么回事？”她问道，同时转向她丈夫。"
"‘It is not he!’ said the Duke hoarsely.","“那不是他！”公爵声音沙哑地说，"
"‘It can’t be he!’","“不可能是他！”"
"‘No, it is not he.","“不，那不是他。"
"It is too small for him.","他没那么小。"
"It is a boy.’","那是一个男孩。”"
"‘Ah, I thought so!","“啊，我也觉得！"
"Boy, come here.’","孩子，过来。”"
"The youthful shepherd advanced with apprehension.","年轻的牧羊人向他们走去，心中充满了恐惧。"
"‘What are you doing here?’","“你在这里干什么？”"
"‘Keeping sheep, your Grace.’","“看守羊群，公爵夫人阁下。”"
"‘Ah, you know me!","“啊，你认识我！"
"Do you keep sheep here every night?’","你每天晚上都在这里看守羊群吗？”"
"‘Off and on, my Lord Duke.’","“断断续续的，公爵大人。”"
"‘And what have you seen here to-night or last night?’ inquired the Duchess.","“那你今天晚上和昨天晚上在这里看到了什么？”公爵夫人问道。"
"‘Any person waiting or walking about?’","“有没有人在等人或者四处徘徊？”"
"The boy was silent.","男孩沉默了。"
"‘He has seen nothing,’ interrupted her husband, his eyes so forbiddingly fixed on the boy that they seemed to shine like points of fire.","“他什么都没看到，”她的丈夫打断道，冷峻的目光盯着男孩，眼睛好像火球一样闪闪发亮，"
"‘Come, let us go.","“来，我们走吧。"
"The air is too keen to stand in long.’","太冷了，不能长时间站在这里。”"
"When they were gone the boy retreated to the hut and sheep, less fearful now than at first—familiarity with the situation having gradually overpowered his thoughts of the buried man.","他们走了之后，男孩回到了棚子里，接着照看羊群，他没起初那么害怕了——熟悉了情况之后，他不像先前那样一直想着被埋葬了的那个男子了。"
"But he was not to be left alone long.","但是，他不会一个人呆很久的。"
"When an interval had elapsed of about sufficient length for walking to and from Shakeforest Towers, there appeared from that direction the heavy form of the Duke.","过了大概能到谢科福里斯特塔一个来回的时间，那个方向出现了公爵笨重的身影。"
"He now came alone.","这次他是一个人来的。"
"The nobleman, on his part, seemed to have eyes no less sharp than the boy’s, for he instantly recognized the latter among the ewes, and came straight towards him.","就这个贵族而言，他的眼力似乎丝毫不比男孩的差，因为他一眼就在母羊群中看到了男孩，然后径直走向他。"
"‘Are you the shepherd lad I spoke to a short time ago?’","“你是先前跟我们讲话的那个牧羊小孩吗？”"
"‘I be, my Lord Duke.’","“是我，公爵大人。”"
"‘Now listen to me.","“现在听我说。"
"Her Grace asked you what you had seen this last night or two up here, and you made no reply.","公爵夫人问你昨晚或者这两天晚上看到了什么，你没回答。"
"I now ask the same thing, and you need not be afraid to answer.","现在我问你同样的问题，你不用害怕，回答我就好了。"
"Have you seen anything strange these nights you have been watching here?’","你守夜的这几天晚上有看到什么不寻常的事情吗？”"
"‘My Lord Duke, I be a poor heedless boy, and what I see I don’t bear in mind.’","“公爵大人，我是一个可怜的粗心男孩，我看到的事都不记得了。”"
"‘I ask you again,’ said the Duke, coming nearer, ‘have you seen anything strange these nights you have been watching here?’","“我再问你一次，”公爵说，靠近了男孩一些，“你守夜的这几天晚上有没有看到什么不寻常的事情？”"
"‘O, my Lord Duke!","“噢，公爵大人！"
"I be but the under-shepherd boy, and my father he was but your humble Grace’s hedger, and my mother only the cinder-woman in the back-yard!","我只是一个小小的牧羊男孩，我父亲曾经是一个为您种植树篱的下人，我母亲只是一位在后院清理煤渣的人！"
"I fall asleep when left alone, and I see nothing at all!’","我一个人的时候就睡着了，我什么都没看见！”"
"The Duke grasped the boy by the shoulder, and, directly impending over him, stared down into his face, ‘Did you see anything strange done here last night, I say?’","公爵抓住了男孩的肩膀，逼近他，向下盯着他的脸说：“我问你，你昨晚有没有看到什么不寻常的事？”"
"‘O, my Lord Duke, have mercy, and don’t stab me!’ cried the shepherd, falling on his knees.","“噢，公爵大人，饶了我吧，别拿刀捅我！”男孩哭着说道，然后跪了下来，"
"‘I have never seen you walking here, or riding here, or lying-in-wait for a man, or dragging a heavy load!’","“我从来没看到你走着来到这里，或者骑马来到这里，或者躺着等人，或者拖着重物！”"
"‘H’m!’ said his interrogator, grimly, relaxing his hold.","“呵！”问话人冷酷地说，然后放开了男孩，"
"‘It is well to know that you have never seen those things.","“知道你没看到这些事就行了。"
"Now, which would you rather—see me do those things now, or keep a secret all your life?’","那么，你愿意选择哪一个呢——是让我再做一遍我做过的事呢，还是你守口如瓶，永远不说出去呢？”"
"‘Keep a secret, my Lord Duke!’","“守口如瓶，公爵大人！”"
"‘Sure you are able?’","“你能做到吗？”"
"‘O, your Grace, try me!’","“噢，大人，你可以考验我！”"
"‘Very well.","“很好。"
"And now, how do you like sheep-keeping?’","那么，那你喜欢看守羊群吗？”"
"‘Not at all.","“一点儿都不喜欢。"
"’Tis lonely work for them that think of spirits, and I’m badly used.’","这是一份喜欢独处的人的工作，我很不习惯。”"
"‘I believe you.","“我相信你。"
"You are too young for it.","你太小了，不适合这份工作。"
"I must do something to make you more comfortable.","我必须做点儿什么，让你感到舒服一点儿。"
"You shall change this smock-frock for a real cloth jacket, and your thick boots for polished shoes.","你将脱掉这件罩袍，脱掉你的厚靴子，换上真正的夹克衫和闪闪发亮的鞋子。"
"And you shall be taught what you have never yet heard of; and be put to school, and have bats and balls for the holidays, and be made a man of.","将有人教授你从来没听过的东西；你将去上学，放假的时候去打球，成为一个真正的男子汉。"
"But you must never say you have been a shepherd boy, and watched on the hills at night, for shepherd boys are not liked in good company.","但是，你永远都不许提你曾经是牧羊男孩，晚上在山上守过夜，因为别人不喜欢跟牧羊男孩交朋友。"
"‘Trust me, my Lord Duke.’","“请您相信我，公爵大人。”"
"‘The very moment you forget yourself, and speak of your shepherd days—this year, next year, in school, out of school, or riding in your carriage twenty years hence—at that moment my help will be withdrawn, and smash down you come to shepherding forthwith.","“你一旦忘了自己的身份，提起你放羊的日子——不管是今年还是明年，无论是在学校还是不在学校，或者是二十年后坐在你的马车里——那我会立刻收回对你的帮助，毁了你，让你马上去牧羊。"
"You have parents, I think you say?’","我记得你说了你也有父母吧？”"
"‘A widowed mother only, my Lord Duke.’","“只有一个寡母，公爵大人！”"
"‘I’ll provide for her, and make a comfortable woman of her, until you speak of—what?’","“我会为她提供生活所需，让她过上舒适的生活，直到你提起——什么？”"
"‘Of my shepherd days, and what I saw here.’","“提起我牧羊的日子以及我在这里看到的事情。”"
"‘Good.","“很好。"
"If you do speak of it?’","如果你的确提起了呢？”"
"‘Smash down she comes to widowing forthwith!’","“那就让她继续过寡妇的日子。”"
"‘That’s well—very well.","“好，很好。"
"But it’s not enough.","但是这还不够。"
"Come here.’","过来。”"
" He took the boy across to the trilithon, and made him kneel down.","他拉着男孩穿过草地，来到巨石牌坊前，让他跪下来。"
"‘Now, this was once a holy place,’ resumed the Duke.","“嗯，这曾经是一个神圣的地方，”公爵继续说道，"
"‘An altar stood here, erected to a venerable family of gods, who were known and talked of long before the God we know now.","“这里曾经有一个圣坛，是为一个受人尊敬的神的家庭建造的，远在现在我们所知的上帝之前，人们就知道并且在讨论那些神。"
"So that an oath sworn here is doubly an oath.","所以，在这里发的誓就是一个双重誓言。"
"Say this after me: “May all the host above—angels and archangels, and principalities and powers—punish me; may I be tormented wherever I am—in the house or in the garden, in the fields or in the roads, in church or in chapel, at home or abroad, on land or at sea; may I be afflicted in eating and in drinking, in growing up and in growing old, in living and dying, inwardly and outwardly, and for always, if I ever speak of my life as a shepherd boy, or of what I have seen done on this Marlbury Down.","现在跟着我说：‘如果我提起我做牧羊男孩的日子，提起我在马尔伯里丘陵地看到的事情，那么请天上所有的圣灵——天使、大天使、权天使以及力天使——惩罚我；无论我在哪里，在屋里还是在花园，在田野还是在路上，在教堂还是在礼拜堂，在家乡还是在异地，在陆地还是在海洋，我都会受到折磨；我在饮食、成长、变老、生死、内外各个方面，永远都会感到痛苦。"
"So be it, and so let it be.","但愿如此，诚愿如此。"
"Amen and amen.”","阿门，阿门。’"
"Now kiss the stone.’","现在亲吻石头。”"
"The trembling boy repeated the words, and kissed the stone, as desired.","男孩浑身颤抖，他重复了这些语句，然后像公爵要求的那样亲吻了石头。"
"The Duke led him off by the hand.","公爵松开了男孩的手。"
"That night the junior shepherd slept in Shakeforest Towers, and the next day he was sent away for tuition to a remote village.","那天晚上，这位年少的牧羊人在谢科福里斯特塔睡了一觉，第二天便被送到一个遥远的村子去上学了。"
"Thence he went to a preparatory establishment, and in due course to a public school.","从那里，他去了一个预备学校，到时候再去公学。"
"FOURTH NIGHT","第四夜"
"On a winter evening many years subsequent to the above-mentioned occurrences, the ci-devant shepherd sat in a well-furnished office in the north wing of Shakeforest Towers in the guise of an ordinary educated man of business.","在上述这些事件发生很多年后一个冬天的晚上，这位曾经的牧羊人坐在谢科福里斯特塔北翼一个布置很好的办公室里，他现在看起来是一位受过教育的寻常的办事人。"
"He appeared at this time as a person of thirty-eight or forty, though actually he was several years younger.","他好像有三十八或四十岁，但事实上没那么老。"
"A worn and restless glance of the eye now and then, when he lifted his head to search for some letter or paper which had been mislaid, seemed to denote that his was not a mind so thoroughly at ease as his surroundings might have led an observer to expect.","他不时抬起头来寻找那些错放在哪个地方的信件或文件，眼神中透着疲惫和焦虑，好像他的心态并不是完全平和的，他所处的环境可能会给旁观者留下这样的印象。"
"His pallor, too, was remarkable for a countryman.","就一个乡下人来说，他苍白的脸色也十分引人注意。"
"He was professedly engaged in writing, but he shaped not word.","他表明上在忙着写东西，但一个字都没写出来。"
"He had sat there only a few minutes, when, laying down his pen and pushing back his chair, he rested a hand uneasily on each of the chair-arms and looked on the floor.","他只在那里坐了几分钟就放下了笔，把椅子向后推了推，他不安地将手放在椅子两边的扶手上，看着地板。"
"Soon he arose and left the room.","他很快便站了起来，离开了房间。"
"His course was along a passage which ended in a central octagonal hall; crossing this he knocked at a door.","他穿过了一段通道，通道的尽头是一个八角形的中央大厅；他穿过大厅，敲响了一扇门。"
"A faint, though deep, voice told him to come in.","一个微弱但是深沉的声音让他进去。"
"The room he entered was the library, and it was tenanted by a single person only—his patron the Duke.","他进去的这个房间是图书馆，图书馆唯一的租用者便是他的赞助人——公爵。"
"During this long interval of years the Duke had lost all his heaviness of build.","经过了这么多年的时间，公爵的身体已经不再结实了。"
"He was, indeed, almost a skeleton; his white hair was thin, and his hands were nearly transparent.","他现在几乎成了一具骷髅，的确；银色的头发很稀松，双手几乎都是透明的了。"
"‘Oh—Mills?’ he murmured.","“噢，米尔斯？”他小声说道，"
"‘Sit down.","“坐吧。"
"What is it?’","有什么事吗？”"
"‘Nothing new, your Grace.","“没什么，大人。"
"Nobody to speak of has written, and nobody has called.’","没什么大人物写东西，也没人来过。”"
"‘Ah—what then?","“啊——还有什么？"
"You look concerned.’","你好像有点儿担心。”"
"‘Old times have come to life, owing to something waking them.’","“我想起了过去的时光，一些东西唤醒了我对过去的回忆。”"
"‘Old times be cursed—which old times are they?’","“该死的过去的时光——过去的哪些时光？”"
"‘That Christmas week twenty-two years ago, when the late Duchess’s cousin Frederick implored her to meet him on Marlbury Downs.","“二十二年前过圣诞的那一周，公爵夫人的表弟弗雷德里克求夫人去马尔伯里丘陵地见他。夫人现在已经去世了。"
"I saw the meeting—it was just such a night as this—and I, as you know, saw more.","我看到了他们的会面——那天晚上跟今晚很像——而且你知道的，我还看到了其他事情。"
"She met him once, but not the second time.’","夫人只见了他一次，没见他第二次。”"
"‘Mills, shall I recall some words to you—the words of an oath taken on that hill by a shepherd-boy?’","“米尔斯，要我提醒你一些话吗？要我提醒你一个牧羊男孩在山上发誓时说的话吗？”"
"‘It is unnecessary.","“没必要。"
"He has strenuously kept that oath and promise.","他竭力在遵守自己的誓言以及诺言。"
"Since that night no sound of his shepherd life has crossed his lips—even to yourself.","自那个晚上起，他从未提起过自己牧羊的生活——甚至是对您。"
"But do you wish to hear more, or do you not, your Grace?’","但是，您想不想再听一些，大人？”"
"‘I wish to hear no more,’ said the Duke sullenly.","“我不想再听了，”公爵不高兴地说道。"
"‘Very well; let it be so.","“很好；那就这样吧。"
"But a time seems coming—may be quite near at hand—when, in spite of my lips, that episode will allow itself to go undivulged no longer.’","但是，好像某个时刻快到了，或许就在眼前，到时候，即使我不说，那段故事自身也会为人所知。”"
"‘I wish to hear no more!’ repeated the Duke.","“我不想再听了！”公爵重复道。"
"‘You need be under no fear of treachery from me,’ said the steward, somewhat bitterly.","“您完全不必担心我会背叛您，”这位管家说道，语气中带着一些心酸，"
"‘I am a man to whom you have been kind—no patron could have been kinder.","“您对我很仁慈——没有比您更仁慈的赞助人了。"
"You have clothed and educated me; have installed me here; and I am not unmindful.","您为我提供了衣食，供我读书，让我在这里工作，我不是忘恩负义的人。"
"But what of it—has your Grace gained much by my stanchness?","但是大人，我坚决不对别人说出以前的事，您自己从中获益多吗？"
"I think not.","我觉得不多。"
"There was great excitement about Captain Ogbourne’s disappearance, but I spoke not a word.","奥格本上尉的失踪引起了很大的轰动，但是我一直守口如瓶。"
"And his body has never been found.","而且他的尸体也一直没找到。"
"For twenty-two years I have wondered what you did with him.","过去的二十二年里，我一直在猜你对他做了什么。"
"Now I know.","现在我知道了。"
"A circumstance that occurred this afternoon recalled the time to me most forcibly.","今天下午发生的一件事，强烈地唤醒了我对以前的回忆。"
"To make it certain to myself that all was not a dream, I went up there with a spade; I searched, and saw enough to know that something decays there in a closed badger’s hole.’","为了确认一切不是梦，我带着一把铁锹去了那里；我仔细找了，看了足够多的东西，然后我知道在一个封起来的獾洞里，有东西在腐烂。”"
"‘Mills, do you think the Duchess guessed?’","“米尔斯，你觉得夫人猜到了吗？”"
"‘She never did, I am sure, to the day of her death.’","“她绝没有，我确定，直到去世她都没猜到。”"
"‘Did you leave all as you found it on the hill?’","“你离开时把山上的东西都恢复到原样了吗？”"
"‘I did.’","“是的。”"
"‘What made you think of going up there this particular afternoon?’","“你为什么今天下午会想到去那里呢？”"
"‘What your Grace says you don’t wish to be told.’","“大人您说了您不想听。”"
"The Duke was silent; and the stillness of the evening was so marked that there reached their ears from the outer air the sound of a tolling bell.","公爵沉默了；夜是如此寂静，外面的钟声传到了他们的耳际。"
"‘What is that bell tolling for?’ asked the nobleman.","“为什么在撞钟？”这位贵族问道。"
"‘For what I came to tell you of, your Grace.’","“这就是我来要告诉您的事，大人。”"
"‘You torment me it is your way!’ said the Duke querulously.","“这是你折磨我的方式！”公爵抱怨道。"
"‘Who’s dead in the village?’","“村里谁去世了？”"
"‘The oldest man—the old shepherd.’","“村里最老的人——老牧羊人。”"
"‘Dead at last—how old is he?’","“终于死了——他多大了？”"
"‘Ninety-four.’","“九十四岁。”"
"‘And I am only seventy.","“我才七十岁。"
"I have four-and-twenty years to the good!’","我还能活二十四年呢！”"
"‘I served under that old man when I kept sheep on Marlbury Downs.","“我在马尔伯里丘陵地守羊的时候，就是在他手下做事。"
"And he was on the hill that second night, when I first exchanged words with your Grace.","第二个晚上，也就是我第一次与您讲话的那个晚上，他也在山上。"
"He was on the hill all the time; but I did not know he was there—nor did you.’","他一直都在山上；但是我不知道他在那里，您也不知道。”"
"‘Ah!’ said the Duke, starting up.","“啊！”公爵叫道，吓得跳了起来。"
"‘Go on—I yield the point—you may tell!’","“继续说——我让步了——你可以告诉我！”"
"‘I heard this afternoon that he was at the point of death.","“今天下午，我听说他快不行了。"
"It was that which set me thinking of that past time—and induced me to search on the hill for what I have told you.","这让我想起了过去的时光，也促使我去山上寻找我跟您说的那个东西。"
"Coming back I heard that he wished to see the Vicar to confess to him a secret he had kept for more than twenty years—“out of respect to my Lord the Duke”—something that he had seen committed on Marlbury Downs when returning to the flock on a December night twenty-two years ago.","我回来的时候，听说他想见牧师，想向牧师忏悔二十多年来——‘出于对公爵大人的尊敬’——一直保守的一个秘密，这个秘密就是二十二年前的十二月的一个晚上，当他回到马尔伯里丘陵地去看守羊群时看到的事情。"
"I have thought it over.","我仔细想过了。"
"He had left me in charge that evening; but he was in the habit of coming back suddenly, lest I should have fallen asleep.","那天晚上，他让我看守羊群；但是，他总有突然回来的习惯，怕万一我睡着了。"
"That night I saw nothing of him, though he had promised to return.","但是那天晚上，我一直没见到他，尽管他答应过我会回来。"
"He must have returned, and—found reason to keep in hiding.","他肯定回来了，然后发现自己必须躲起来。"
"It is all plain.","事情再清楚不过了。"
"The next thing is that the Vicar went to him two hours ago.","然后，两小时之前牧师去看他了。"
"Further than that I have not heard.’","之后我就没听到其他的事了。”"
"‘It is quite enough.","“够了。"
"I will see the Vicar at daybreak to-morrow.’","明早黎明时分我会去见牧师的。”"
"‘What to do?’","“见他干什么呢？”"
"‘Stop his tongue for four-and-twenty years—till I am dead at ninety-four, like the shepherd.’","“让他在今后的二十四年里保守秘密，直到我九十四岁时去世，就像老牧羊人一样。”"
"‘Your Grace—while you impose silence on me, I will not speak, even though nay neck should pay the penalty.","“大人，您让我保守秘密，那我一定不会说出去，尽管没人该付出代价。"
"I promised to be yours, and I am yours.","我承诺会对你忠诚，那我一定会保持忠诚。"
"But is this persistence of any avail?’","但是您这样坚持有用吗？”"
"‘I’ll stop his tongue, I say!’ cried the Duke with some of his old rugged force.","“我会封上他的嘴，我说！”公爵喊道，语气中带着他那一贯的粗鲁和强硬，"
"‘Now, you go home to bed, Mills, and leave me to manage him.’","“现在，你回家睡觉，米尔斯，让我来对付他。”"
"The interview ended, and the steward withdrew.","对话结束了，这位管家退了出来。"
"The night, as he had said, was just such an one as the night of twenty-two years before, and the events of the evening destroyed in him all regard for the season as one of cheerfulness and goodwill.","那天晚上，正如他所说的，的确跟二十二年前的那个晚上很像，他一直认为这是一个充满愉悦和亲切的季节，但是那个晚上发生的事情完全破坏了他的这种想法。"
"He went off to his own house on the further verge of the park, where he led a lonely life, scarcely calling any man friend.","他回到位于公园另一边的住所内，在那里，他过着孤独的生活，没有一个人能称得上是他的朋友。"
"At eleven he prepared to retire to bed—but did not retire.","十一点钟的时候他准备睡觉——但是却没睡。"
"He sat down and reflected.","他坐下来，陷入了沉思。"
"Twelve o’clock struck; he looked out at the colourless moon, and, prompted by he knew not what, put on his hat and emerged into the air.","十二点的钟声敲响了；他看了看外面苍白的月亮，在自己也不知道是什么原因的驱使下，戴上帽子，出门去了。"
"Here William Mills strolled on and on, till he reached the top of Marlbury Downs, a spot he had not visited at this hour of the night during the whole score-and-odd years.","威廉姆·米尔斯漫步了好久，最后到了马尔伯里丘陵地的最高处，在过去二十几年里，他从没在晚上这个时候来过这里。"
"He placed himself, as nearly as he could guess, on the spot where the shepherd’s hut had stood.","他根据自己的猜测，尽量站在离原先牧羊人的棚子所在地最近的地方。"
"No lambing was in progress there now, and the old shepherd who had used him so roughly had ceased from his labours that very day.","现在，那里没有羊产羔，自那天起，曾经对他很粗鲁的老牧羊人停止了自己的工作。"
"But the trilithon stood up white as ever; and, crossing the intervening sward, the steward fancifully placed his mouth against the stone.","但是，巨石牌坊还是立在那里，一如既往那么白；这位管家走过草地，奇异地将自己的嘴贴在了石头上。"
"Restless and self-reproachful as he was, he could not resist a smile as he thought of the terrifying oath of compact, sealed by a kiss upon the stones of a Pagan temple.","尽管他感到不安和自责，但是当他想起和公爵达成契约时发了可怕的誓，还亲吻了异教的石头牌坊，便忍不住微笑。"
"But he had kept his word, rather as a promise than as a formal vow, with much worldly advantage to himself, though not much happiness; till increase of years had bred reactionary feelings which led him to receive the news of to-night with emotions akin to relief.","但是，他遵守了自己的诺言，他把它当作承诺而非正式誓言来遵守，这为他带来了许多世俗的回报，尽管没带来多少快乐；年复一年，他萌生了反抗情绪，正因为如此，他听到今晚的消息时，心中有了如释重负的感觉。"
"While leaning against the Devil’s Door and thinking on these things, he became conscious that he was not the only inhabitant of the down.","他靠在“魔鬼门”上，想着这些事情，然后他意识到现在丘陵地上并不是只有他一个人。"
"A figure in white was moving across his front with long, noiseless strides.","一个穿着白色衣服的身影正在他的前方悄无声息地大步向前走。"
"Mills stood motionless, and when the form drew quite near he perceived it to be that of the Duke himself in his nightshirt—apparently walking in his sleep.","米尔斯站在那里一动不动，等那个身影走近了，他看清楚是公爵，他穿着睡衣——显然是在梦游。"
"Not to alarm the old man, Mills clung close to the shadow of the stone.","米尔斯不愿惊醒这位老人，便紧紧地贴着石头，躲在石头的阴影里。"
"The Duke went straight on into the hollow.","公爵径直朝着洼地走去。"
"There he knelt down, and began scratching the earth with his hands like a badger.","在那里他跪了下来，然后像獾一样，开始用手刨土。"
"After a few minutes he arose, sighed heavily, and retraced his steps as he had come.","几分钟之后，他站了起来，重重地叹了一口气，然后沿原路返回了。"
"Fearing that he might harm himself, yet unwilling to arouse him, the steward followed noiselessly.","这位管家怕公爵伤了他自己，但是又不愿惊醒他，于是便悄悄地跟在公爵后面。"
"The Duke kept on his path unerringly, entered the park, and made for the house, where he let himself in by a window that stood open—the one probably by which he had come out.","公爵毫无差错地沿着来时的路走着，然后进了公园，朝着房子走去，在那里他从一扇开着的窗户钻了进去——他很可能就是从那扇窗户钻出来的。"
"Mills softly closed the window behind his patron, and then retired homeward to await the revelations of the morning, deeming it unnecessary to alarm the house.","公爵进去之后，米尔斯轻轻地关上窗户，然后朝家里走去，等早上看有什么消息，他觉得没必要叫醒公爵家里的其他人了。"
"However, he felt uneasy during the remainder of the night, no less on account of the Duke’s personal condition than because of that which was imminent next day.","然而，接下来的时间，他感到很不安，不只是因为第二天即将来临的事，还因为公爵的个人状况。"
"Early in the morning he called at Shakeforest Towers.","他一大早就去了谢科福里斯特塔。"
"The blinds were down, and there was something singular upon the porter’s face when he opened the door.","百叶窗是放下来的，当守门人打开门时，米尔斯看到他表情有些异常。"
"The steward inquired for the Duke.","这位管家询问了公爵的情况。"
"The man’s voice was subdued as he replied: ‘Sir, I am sorry to say that his Grace is dead!","守门人语气低沉地回答道：“先生，很遗憾地告诉您，公爵大人去世了！"
"He left his room some time in the night, and wandered about nobody knows where.","他夜里离开了房间，去了哪里谁都不知道。"
"On returning to the upper floor he lost his balance and fell downstairs.’","再回到楼上的时候，他失去了平衡，摔下了楼梯。”"
"The steward told the tale of the Down before the Vicar had spoken.","这位管家在牧师之前向大家讲述了丘陵地上发生的事。"
"Mills had always intended to do so after the death of the Duke.","米尔斯一直打算在公爵去世之后这么做。"
"The consequences to himself he underwent cheerfully; but his life was not prolonged.","他高兴地接受了后果；但是他的生命并没有因此而延长。"
"He died, a farmer at the Cape, when still somewhat under forty-nine years of age.","他去世时是开普地区的一个农民，享年不到四十九岁。"
"The splendid Marlbury breeding flock is as renowned as ever, and, to the eye, seems the same in every particular that it was in earlier times; but the animals which composed it on the occasion of the events gathered from the Justice are divided by many ovine generations from its members now.","马尔伯里丘陵地的种羊群和以往一样有名，而且从表面上看来，各个方面都和以前一样；但是，治安官收集这些事件发生时的羊群已经因为几代绵羊的繁衍而品种不纯了。"
"Lambing Corner has long since ceased to be used for lambing purposes, though the name still lingers on as the appellation of the spot.","产羔角很久前就不再用于产羔了，尽管这一名字留了下来，人们一直都这么叫这个地方。"
"This abandonment of site may be partly owing to the removal of the high furze bushes which lent such convenient shelter at that date.","之所以放弃这里，在一定程度上可能是因为那些高大的荆豆丛不在了，它们曾经为牧羊人提供了方便的庇护。"
"Partly, too, it may be due to another circumstance.","一定程度上可能是因为其他事情。"
"For it is said by present shepherds in that district that during the nights of Christmas week flitting shapes are seen in the open space around the trilithon, together with the gleam of a weapon, and the shadow of a man dragging a burden into the hollow.","因为据现在那个地区的牧羊人说，在圣诞节那一周的晚上，看到有东西在巨石牌坊周围的空地上飞来飞去，有凶器在闪闪发光，同时有一个人影拖着重物走向洼地。"
"But of these things there is no certain testimony.","但是没有确定的证据证明这些事是不是真的。"
"Christmas 1881.","1881年圣诞。"

