"书名《信使》（巴尔扎克短篇小说）短简介《信使》这篇小小的作品，构思极为简单，但却成功地运用了白描手法，寥寥数笔就勾画出一对不相称的夫妻、一桩不如意的婚姻、一个品貌出众的女人难以明言的内心苦闷，以及她失去感情寄托后深沉的悲哀。长简介法国作家巴尔扎克对现实主义文学最大的贡献在于他对典型人物形象和社会风俗的细致刻画。其文章中对于人物性格在社会环境的描写无一不体现这种变化和发展。其短篇小说《信使》借一位报信人的口吻，讲述了一对伯爵夫妇貌合神离的婚姻悲剧。对于女主人公痛失所爱、之后的孤寂和憔悴的描写体现了作者的洞察力和刻画人物的功力。巴尔扎克作品中对于人物的塑造和描写都对以后的现实主义文学产生了深远的影响。关键字信使；巴尔扎克；外研社编译组；情人；伯爵；女儿；伯爵夫人；信使作者（法）巴尔扎克作者简介巴尔扎克（1799年5月20日—1850年8月18日），法国19世纪著名作家，法国现实主义文学成就最高者之一。他创作的《人间喜剧》共91部小说，写了两千四百多个人物，是人类文学史上罕见的文学丰碑，被称为法国社会的“百科全书”。"
"书评“要是我把扔到我身上的石头全都收集起来，足可建造一座最大的文学家纪念碑。……我获取别人的东西不是偷窃，而是征服，是合并。”——巴尔扎克是不是你还记得我，我的爱人？在我生命枯萎时，你会用眼泪浇灌我们的爱情？你会用憔悴祭奠我的灵魂？你会在心底的那个角落为我唱一首心灵的挽歌？"
"The Message","信使"
"by Honoré de Balzac","作者：巴尔扎克"
"I have always longed to tell a simple and true story, which should strike terror into two young lovers, and drive them to take refuge each in the other’s heart, as two children cling together at the sight of a snake by a woodside.","我一直想要讲一个简单而真实的故事，这个故事可能会让两个相爱的年轻人感到惊恐，可能会驱使他们躲在对方胸口寻求庇护，就像两个孩子在林中猛然看到蛇，会吓得紧紧抱在一起一样。"
"At the risk of spoiling my story and of being taken for a coxcomb, I state my intention at the outset.","我开宗明义地向你们陈述了我讲这个故事的目的，哪怕这样做会破坏了你对这个故事的兴趣，也有可能令读者将我看成一个妄自尊大的人。"
"I myself played a part in this almost commonplace tragedy; so if it fails to interest you, the failure will be in part my own fault, in part owing to historical veracity.","我也是这个可以说是很常见的悲剧中的一分子，因此，如果这个故事不能引起你们的兴趣，那不仅归咎于我自己，同时也得归咎于这个故事的事实本身。"
"Plenty of things in real life are superlatively uninteresting; so that it is one-half of art to select from realities those which contain possibilities of poetry.","真实生活中很多事是特别索然无味的。所以，小说家艺术才能的一部分就是从真实中选择具有诗意可能性的那些素材。"
"In 1819 I was traveling from Paris to Moulins.","1819年，我从巴黎前往穆兰旅行。"
"The state of my finances obliged me to take an outside place.","囊中羞涩的我不得不坐在公共马车顶层的位置上。"
"Englishmen, as you know, regard those airy perches on the top of the coach as the best seats; and for the first few miles I discovered abundance of excellent reasons for justifying the opinion of our neighbors.","你们知道，英国人认为马车顶层的位置最好。在旅途的最初阶段，我找到无数有力的理由，证明我们邻国人的这种看法是正确的。"
"A young fellow, apparently in somewhat better circumstances, who came to take the seat beside me from preference, listened to my reasoning with inoffensive smiles.","一位看上去比我境遇稍好的青年也爬了上来，挑了我旁边的位置坐下。他对我的种种论据都报以微微一笑，但并无讥讽之意。"
"An approximate nearness of age, a similarity in ways of thinking, a common love of fresh air, and of the rich landscape scenery through which the coach was lumbering along,—these things, together with an indescribable magnetic something, drew us before long into one of those short-lived traveller’s intimacies, in which we unbend with the more complacency because the intercourse is by its very nature transient, and makes no implicit demands upon the future.","我们两人年龄相近，思维方式很像，又都喜爱野外的新鲜空气，也喜欢那随着笨重的驿车向前滚动而展现在我们眼前的种种乡间美景——此外，还由于某种无法解释的磁铁般的吸引力，我们很快就建立起一种旅行者之间的短暂的亲密友情。我们很乐于享受这种友情，因为这种友情本质上而言很快就会终止，对未来不会有任何约束。"
"We had not come thirty leagues before we were talking of women and love.","走了还不到三十里格，我们就已经在谈论女人和爱情了。"
"Then, with all the circumspection demanded in such matters, we proceeded naturally to the topic of our lady-loves.","后来，由于时机合适，我们俩很自然地谈到了我们各自的情妇。"
"Young as we both were, we still admired “the woman of a certain age,” that is to say, the woman between thirty-five and forty.","我们都很年轻，还处于喜欢“成熟少妇”的阶段，也就是说喜欢35到40岁的女人。"
"Oh! any poet who should have listened to our talk, for heaven knows how many stages beyond Montargis, would have reaped a harvest of flaming epithet, rapturous description, and very tender confidences.","啊！从蒙塔日到我已记不清过了多少站的旅途之间，若是有一位诗人倾听了我们谈话，他就能收集到很多充满激情的爱称、言辞热辣的表达和非常甜蜜的爱情私房话。"
"Our bashful fears, our silent interjections, our blushes, as we met each other’s eyes, were expressive with an eloquence, a boyish charm, which I have ceased to feel.","而我们脸上那羞涩的恐惧、无言的慨叹和眼光交汇时的腼腆，又比言语更能表达我们要说的内容。那种青年男子的魅力，此后我也再难寻觅了。"
"One must remain young, no doubt, to understand youth.","肯定只有年轻人才能理解年轻人吧。"
"Well, we understood one another to admiration on all the essential points of passion.","这么说吧，我们俩在有关爱情的主要观点上出奇地一致。"
"We had laid it down as an axiom at the very outset, that in theory and practice there was no such piece of driveling nonsense in this world as a certificate of birth; that plenty of women were younger at forty than many a girl of twenty; and, to come to the point, that a woman is no older than she looks.","首先，我们讨论出这样一个原则，那就是，不论从理论上还是实践上讲，世上没有比出生证更无意义的东西了。很多四十岁的女人反而比某些二十岁的女人更年轻。归根结底，女人外表显示的年龄才是她们的实际年龄。"
"This theory set no limits to the age of love, so we struck out, in all good faith, into a boundless sea.","这一理论突破了爱情在年龄上的限制，于是，我们真心实意地在无边无际的爱情之海中遨游起来。"
"At length, when we had portrayed our mistresses as young, charming, and devoted to us, women of rank, women of taste, intellectual and clever; when we had endowed them with little feet, a satin, nay, a delicately fragrant skin, then came the admission—on his part that Madame Such-an-one was thirty-eight years old, and on mine that I worshiped a woman of forty.","我们先把自己的情妇描绘成年轻、迷人、痴情、趣味高雅、聪明机智的伯爵夫人。她们有着一双秀足，皮肤光滑如缎，还散发着幽香。最后，我们互相吐露了实情——他承认他爱的某夫人三十八岁，我也坦白说自己爱着一个四十来岁的女人。"
"Whereupon, as if released on either side from some kind of vague fear, our confidences came thick and fast, when we found that we were in the same confraternity of love.","既然发现彼此在爱情方面是同道，我们便从一种模糊的顾忌中解脱出来，更加推心置腹了。"
"It was which of us should overtop the other in sentiment.","我们俩都竭力表明自己比对方更多情。"
"One of us had traveled six hundred miles to see his mistress for an hour.","一个说，自己有一次长途跋涉六百英里，就为了和情妇相会一个钟头。"
"The other, at the risk of being shot for a wolf, had prowled about her park to meet her one night.","另一个说，自己曾冒着被当成狼给枪杀的危险，潜入她的庭院赴一次夜间幽会。"
"Out came all our follies in fact.","我们陈述着自己干过的种种蠢事。"
"If it is pleasant to remember past dangers, is it not at least as pleasant to recall past delights?","如果回想过去经历的危险是很愉快的事，那追忆已经消逝的欢乐不也有莫大的乐趣吗？"
"We live through the joy a second time.","我们相当于又经历了一次这样的快乐！"
"We told each other everything, our perils, our great joys, our little pleasures, and even the humors of the situation.","我们之间无话不谈：我们的冒险经历，体验过的大幸福、小快乐，甚至谈到了遇到危机时的心境。"
"My friend’s countess had lighted a cigar for him; mine made chocolate for me, and wrote to me every day when we did not meet; his lady had come to spend three days with him at the risk of ruin to her reputation; mine had done even better, or worse, if you will have it so.","我的朋友说，他的情人伯爵夫人为了博取他的欢心，曾给他点过一支雪茄；我说我的伯爵夫人为我做过巧克力，而且一见不到我就每天给我写信；他的情妇曾冒着身败名裂的危险，和他共度三日春宵；我的情妇做得更大胆，或者不妨说，更过分。"
"Our countesses, moreover, were adored by their husbands; these gentlemen were enslaved by the charm possessed by every woman who loves; and, with even supererogatory simplicity, afforded us that just sufficient spice of danger which increases pleasure.","而且，两位伯爵都钟爱他们的妻子，他们被正在恋爱的女人身上特有的魅力深深迷住，对妻子唯命是从。他们比传令兵更加头脑简单。他们构成的威胁恰恰能增添我们的乐趣。"
"Ah! how quickly the wind swept away our talk and our happy laughter!","唉！可惜，我们愉快的谈笑时光那么快就被风吹得烟消云散了。"
"When we reached Pouilly, I scanned my new friend with much interest, and truly, it was not difficult to imagine him the hero of a very serious love affair.","我们到达普耶的时候，我仔细打量了我的新朋友，而且很容易想象出，他真的是恋爱故事中的主角。"
"Picture to yourselves a young man of middle height, but very well proportioned, a bright, expressive face, dark hair, blue eyes, moist lips, and white and even teeth.","请你在脑海中描绘出这么一个青年，他身材中等，但很匀称；面孔明亮、表情丰富；他黑头发、蓝眼睛，双唇微红，牙齿洁白整齐。"
"A certain not unbecoming pallor still overspread his delicately cut features, and there were faint dark circles about his eyes, as if he were recovering from an illness.","他俊秀的五官上弥漫着一丝苍白感，看起来并不特别突兀。他的眼圈略带茶褐色，仿佛是个初愈的病人。"
"Add, furthermore, that he had white and shapely hands, of which he was as careful as a pretty woman should be; add that he seemed to be very well informed, and was decidedly clever, and it should not be difficult for you to imagine that my traveling companion was more than worthy of a countess.","而且，他双手白皙，线条柔和，就好像一个漂亮女人精心保养过的手。此外，他看上去受过很好的教育，又很聪敏。所以你不难想象，我的旅伴作为一个伯爵夫人的情人是当之无愧的。"
"Indeed, many a girl might have wished for such a husband, for he was a Vicomte with an income of twelve or fifteen thousand livres, “to say nothing of expectations.”","事实上，可能不止一位姑娘会梦想着嫁给他，因为他是子爵，拥有一万二千到一万五千里弗赫的收入，“这还没算上可能继承到的遗产”。"
"About a league out of Pouilly the coach was overturned.","离普耶还有大约一里格路时，马车突然翻了。"
"My luckless comrade, thinking to save himself, jumped to the edge of a newly-ploughed field, instead of following the fortunes of the vehicle and clinging tightly to the roof, as I did.","我不幸的伙伴想着要自救，从车上跳到一片新犁过的田边，而不像我那样紧紧抓住车顶，随着车子翻倒。"
"He either miscalculated in some way, or he slipped; how it happened, I do not know, but the coach fell over upon him, and he was crushed under it.","他可能是跳得不得法，要不就是滑倒了。我也不知道事故是怎么发生的，反正车子倒在他身上，他被牢牢压在了下面。"
"We carried him into a peasant’s cottage, and there, amid the moans wrung from him by horrible sufferings, he contrived to give me a commission—a sacred task, in that it was laid upon me by a dying man’s last wish.","我们将他抬到一家农舍。疼痛难忍的他发出一阵阵呻吟，他一边呻吟，一边向我述说他的遗言——让我完成一个神圣的任务，那是垂死者最后的愿望。"
"Poor boy, all through his agony he was torturing himself in his young simplicity of heart with the thought of the painful shock to his mistress when she should suddenly read of his death in a newspaper.","可怜的人，在其疼痛难忍之际还在想，倘若他的情妇突然从报上获悉他的死讯会多么悲哀，他年轻而单纯的心灵为此备受折磨。"
"He begged me to go myself to break the news to her.","他请求我亲自去给他的情人转达这一不幸消息。"
"He bade me look for a key which he wore on a ribbon about his neck.","他让我在他胸前找一把钥匙，一把用缎带穿着的钥匙。"
"I found it half buried in the flesh, but the dying boy did not utter a sound as I extricated it as gently as possible from the wound which it had made.","我找到了那把钥匙，它已半陷在肉里，但是当我尽可能轻地把它从伤口里拔出来时，我那垂死的朋友没有叫一声疼。"
"He had scarcely given me the necessary directions—I was to go to his home at La Charite-sur-Loire for his mistress’ love-letters, which he conjured me to return to her—when he grew speechless in the middle of a sentence; but from his last gesture, I understood that the fatal key would be my passport in his mother’s house.","他几乎没有给我足够的指示——但是他要我去卢瓦尔河畔的拉夏里泰城，到他家里取他情妇给他写的全部情书，并请我把这些信还给她——句子讲到一半，他便无力说下去了。然而，他最后一个手势告诉我，那把致命的钥匙将是我找到他母亲家的通行证。"
"It troubled him that he was powerless to utter a single word to thank me, for of my wish to serve him he had no doubt.","他毫不怀疑我一定能为他尽心尽力，然而他却不能向我讲一句感激的话，这使他很伤心。"
"He looked wistfully at me for a moment, then his eyelids drooped in token of farewell, and his head sank, and he died.","于是他用恳求的目光看了我片刻，眨了眨眼皮表示和我诀别，头垂下来，与世长辞了。"
"His death was the only fatal accident caused by the overturn.","他的死亡是翻车造成的唯一不幸事件。"
"“But it was partly his own fault,” the coachman said to me.","“但是这或多或少是他自己的过错。”马车夫对我说。"
"At La Charite, I executed the poor fellow’s dying wishes.","到了拉夏里泰，我执行了这位可怜的旅伴的口头遗嘱。"
"His mother was away from home, which in a manner was fortunate for me.","他母亲不在家，这对我来说倒是一大幸事。"
"Nevertheless, I had to assuage the grief of an old woman-servant, who staggered back at the tidings of her young master’s death, and sank half-dead into a chair when she saw the blood-stained key.","然而，我还是不得不目睹一位老女仆的悲痛。当我告诉她，她的小主人已死时，她的身子晃了晃。随后，她看到了那把还染着血迹的钥匙，便木然地跌坐在一把椅子里了。"
"But I had another and more dreadful sorrow to think of, the sorrow of a woman who had lost her last love; so I left the old woman to her prosopopeia, and carried off the precious correspondence, carefully sealed by my friend of the day.","我因心中惦记着另一种更伟大的痛苦——一个被命运夺走了最后之爱的女人的痛苦，只得离开了年迈的女管家，任她继续哀哭。我带着那封珍贵的信件出发了，它是由我那结识仅一天的朋友仔细封好的。 "
"The Countess’ chateau was some eight leagues beyond Moulins, and then there was some distance to walk across country.","伯爵夫人居住的庄园离穆兰大约八里格，其中一段还是乡间小路。"
"So it was not exactly an easy matter to deliver my message.","所以我这个送信的差事还并不容易。"
"For divers reasons into which I need not enter, I had barely sufficient money to take me to Moulins.","由于种种无需赘述的原因，我的路费仅够用到穆兰。"
"However, my youthful enthusiasm determined to hasten thither on foot as fast as possible.","但是，作为一个年轻人的那份热情使我决定尽快步行前往。"
"Bad news travels swiftly, and I wished to be first at the chateau.","坏消息一向传得快，我必须赶在它前头。"
"I asked for the shortest way, and hurried through the field paths of the Bourbonnais, bearing, as it were, a dead man on my back.","我打听到了最便捷的路，便在波旁的田间小路上疾行，就好像我肩上扛着一个死人在赶路。"
"The nearer I came to the Chateau de Montpersan, the more aghast I felt at the idea of my strange self-imposed pilgrimage.","我越是接近蒙佩尔桑庄园，对于此次自愿接受的拜见贵妇的奇特旅行就越发感到害怕。"
"Vast numbers of romantic fancies ran in my head.","我脑海中浮现出无数富有浪漫色彩的奇妙情节。"
"I imagined all kinds of situations in which I might find this Comtesse de Montpersan, or, to observe the laws of romance, this Juliette, so passionately beloved of my traveling companion.","我虚构了无数场景，设想自己可能在什么样的情景中会见蒙佩尔桑伯爵夫人，或者说，会见曾被年轻的旅伴如此爱慕的朱丽叶，这样更有浪漫色彩。"
"I sketched out ingenious answers to the questions which she might be supposed to put to me.","我猜测着她可能向我提出的种种问题，并且编出种种机智的回答。"
"At every turn of a wood, in every beaten pathway, I rehearsed a modern version of the scene in which Sosie describes the battle to his lantern.","在每一条低凹的小路上，在每一个树林的拐弯处，我仿佛都在排练索西对他的灯笼叙述如何打仗的那一幕戏。"
"To my shame be it said, I had thought at first of nothing but the part that I was to play, of my own cleverness, of how I should demean myself; but now that I was in the country, an ominous thought flashed through my soul like a thunderbolt tearing its way through a veil of gray cloud.","说来惭愧，我一开始的时候满脑子只想着我应该扮演什么角色，我该如何施展才智，以及我应持怎样的举止态度；可是自打我进入庄园，一种凄楚的思绪突然闪现在我脑海中，如同一声惊雷划破灰色的云幕。"
"What an awful piece of news it was for a woman whose whole thoughts were full of her young lover, who was looking forward hour by hour to a joy which no words can express, a woman who had been at a world of pains to invent plausible pretexts to draw him to her side.","对一个被情人占满思绪的女人来说，我捎去的消息是多么可怕啊！她曾时刻期盼情人归来时能够感受到那种难以言表的欢乐，也曾费尽心力地寻觅借口和托词要把她的情人带到她的身边。"
"Yet, after all, it was a cruel deed of charity to be the messenger of death!","然而，报丧总归是一种残酷的慈善行为。"
"So I hurried on, splashing and bemiring myself in the byways of the Bourbonnais.","于是我加快了脚步，不时陷在波旁的小路上的泥泞里，衣服上溅满了点点污泥。"
"Before very long I reached a great chestnut avenue with a pile of buildings at the further end—the Chateau of Montpersan stood out against the sky like a mass of brown cloud, with sharp, fantastic outlines.","不久，我走上一条两边栽满栗树的林荫大道，大道尽头便是蒙佩尔桑城堡——它的主体建筑耸立在天空下，就像一团形状怪诞、镶着亮边的褐色云彩。"
"All the doors of the chateau stood open.","到了城堡门口，我发现大门和侧门都敞开着。"
"This in itself disconcerted me, and routed all my plans; but I went in boldly, and in a moment found myself between a couple of dogs, barking as your true country-bred animal can bark.","这一始料未及的情况让我惴惴不安，它打乱了我的全部计划。不过，我还是壮着胆进去了。突然，两条狗出现在我的左右，大声吠叫，像地道的乡下狗那样凶。"
"The sound brought out a hurrying servant-maid; who, when informed that I wished to speak to Mme. la Comtesse, waved a hand towards the masses of trees in the English park which wound about the chateau with “Madame is out there—”","一个女佣闻声跑来，问我是谁。我告诉她，我想和伯爵夫人说几句话，她便冲着环绕着城堡的英国式大花园里的树丛挥手说：“夫人在那边——”"
"“Many thanks,” said I ironically.","我讥讽地说了声“非常感谢”。"
"I might have wandered for a couple of hours in the park with her “out there” to guide me.","她这句“夫人在那边”可能要害得我在花园里转上两小时。"
"In the meantime, a pretty little girl, with curling hair, dressed in a white frock, a rose-colored sash, and a broad frill at the throat, had overheard or guessed the question and its answer.","这时，一个漂亮的小女孩走了过来。她留着一头鬈发，穿一件白色连衣裙，腰上系着粉红腰带，颈部装饰着宽褶边。她听到了，要不就是猜到了我和女仆的问答。"
"She gave me a glance and vanished, calling in shrill, childish tones: ","她瞥了我一眼，便跑开了，还用孩子气的尖细的声音喊着："
"“Mother, here is a gentleman who wishes to speak to you!”","“妈妈，有一位先生要和你讲话！”"
"And, along the winding alleys, I followed the skipping and dancing white frill, a sort of will-o’-the-wisp, that showed me the way among the trees.","我跟在她后面，沿着弯弯曲曲的花园小径走去。那个白色褶边飘上飘下，如同磷火，为我指引着伯爵夫人的所在。"
"I must make a full confession.","我必须做到毫不隐瞒。"
"I stopped behind the last shrub in the avenue, pulled up my collar, rubbed my shabby hat and my trousers with the cuffs of my sleeves, dusted my coat with the sleeves themselves, and gave them a final cleansing rub one against the other.","走到林荫路的最后一个矮树丛时，我停住脚步，竖起了衣领，用上衣的袖头掸了掸寒酸的帽子和长裤，用袖子掸了掸上衣，又将两只袖子互相掸了掸。"
"I buttoned my coat carefully so as to exhibit the inner, always the least worn, side of the cloth, and finally had turned down the tops of my trousers over my boots, artistically cleaned in the grass.","然后，我把上衣仔细扣好，露出翻领，因为这些部分总是比衣服的其他部分要新一点儿。最后，我很巧妙地把靴子在草里擦了擦，将裤腿放下，遮住靴面。"
"Thanks to this Gascon toilet, I could hope that the lady would not take me for the local rate collector; but now when my thoughts travel back to that episode of my youth, I sometimes laugh at my own expense.","我希望经过这番加斯科涅式的打扮后，我不会被这位夫人当成收取地方税的税务员。现在，我有时回想起彼时彼刻年轻的我，自己也觉得好笑。"
"Suddenly, just as I was composing myself, at a turning in the green walk, among a wilderness of flowers lighted up by a hot ray of sunlight, I saw Juliette—Juliette and her husband.","就在我整理仪容时，突然，在绿色小径的拐弯处，在和煦的阳光照耀下的百花丛中，我瞥见了朱丽叶——朱丽叶和她的丈夫。"
"The pretty little girl held her mother by the hand, and it was easy to see that the lady had quickened her pace somewhat at the child’s ambiguous phrase.","漂亮的小女孩牵着妈妈的手。显而易见，伯爵夫人听到女儿那句模棱两可的话以后，加快了脚步。"
"Taken aback by the sight of a total stranger, who bowed with a tolerably awkward air, she looked at me with a coolly courteous expression and an adorable pout, in which I, who knew her secret, could read the full extent of her disappointment.","见是一个陌生人颇为笨拙地在向她行礼，她吃了一惊，停了下来，对我——了解她秘密的人，摆出一副冷漠而又彬彬有礼的面孔，并且优雅地噘了噘嘴，这表情使我看出她有多么失望沮丧。"
"I sought, but sought in vain, to remember any of the elegant phrases so laboriously prepared.","我想从苦心准备的漂亮词句里找出几句话来讲讲，可是一句也说不出。"
"This momentary hesitation gave the lady’s husband time to come forward.","正在这犹豫的当口，她的先生出场了。"
"Thoughts by the myriad flitted through my brain.","我顿时思绪万千。"
"To give myself a countenance, I got out a few sufficiently feeble inquiries, asking whether the persons present were really M. le Comte and Mme. la Comtesse de Montpersan.","为了掩饰窘态，我说了几句无关紧要的话，问我面前的两位是否就是蒙佩尔桑伯爵和伯爵夫人。"
"These imbecilities gave me time to form my own conclusions at a glance, and, with a perspicacity rare at that age, to analyze the husband and wife whose solitude was about to be so rudely disturbed.","话虽无意义，却使我有时间对夫妇俩作出判断和分析。我以在我那样的年龄罕有的洞察力一眼看出，他们的平静生活就要被我的到来彻底打乱了。"
"The husband seemed to be a specimen of a certain type of nobleman, the fairest ornaments of the provinces of our day.","她丈夫看上去是一位典型的乡绅，这些乡绅现在成了外省最大的荣耀。"
"He wore big shoes with stout soles to them.","他穿着一双厚底大皮鞋。"
"I put the shoes first advisedly, for they made an even deeper impression upon me than a seedy black coat, a pair of threadbare trousers, a flabby cravat, or a crumpled shirt collar.","我特意首先提到这双鞋，是因为它比那褪了色的黑上衣、磨旧的长裤、松松垮垮的领结和卷边的衬衣领更让我印象深刻。"
"There was a touch of the magistrate in the man, a good deal more of the Councillor of the Prefecture, all the self-importance of the mayor of the arrondissement, the local autocrat, and the soured temper of the unsuccessful candidate who has never been returned since the year 1816.","此人有点儿像法官，但更像省参议员。他浑身上下一副自命不凡的神气，好像一个区长，也就是当地一霸。他看上去脾气乖戾，一个自一八一六年以来每年都参加竞选，但每年都落选的人才有这样的脾气。"
"As to countenance—a wizened, wrinkled, sunburned face, and long, sleek locks of scanty gray hair; as to character—an incredible mixture of homely sense and sheer silliness; of a rich man’s overbearing ways, and a total lack of manners; just the kind of husband who is almost entirely led by his wife, yet imagines himself to be the master; apt to domineer in trifles, and to let more important things slip past unheeded—there you have the man!","说到他的面容——形容憔悴，满面皱纹，皮肤焦黄，头上长着几根稀疏的灰发，又长又直。说到他的性格——乡下人的理智和愚蠢不可思议地混合在他身上。他毫无教养，却有富人的傲慢；对妻子言听计从，可又自认为是一家之主；大事不管，小事上却不肯迁就——这就是伯爵其人。"
"But the Countess!","可是伯爵夫人却截然不同！"
"Ah, how sharp and startling the contrast between husband and wife!","啊，夫妻二人之间形成了鲜明对照！"
"The Countess was a little woman, with a flat, graceful figure and enchanting shape; so fragile, so dainty was she, that you would have feared to break some bone if you so much as touched her.","她身形小巧，仪态万方，身段迷人。她长得那么娇小、纤弱，好像一碰就会折断她的骨头。"
"She wore a white muslin dress, a rose-colored sash, and rose-colored ribbons in the pretty cap on her head; her chemisette was moulded so deliciously by her shoulders and the loveliest rounded contours, that the sight of her awakened an irresistible desire of possession in the depths of the heart.","她身穿一条白色细纱长裙，头戴一顶饰着粉红缎带的漂亮软帽。腰间系一根粉红腰带，无袖胸衣合体地裹着肩膀和线条优美的上身，让人一见到她便从心底产生一种难以抗拒的占有欲望。"
"Her eyes were bright and dark and expressive, her movements graceful, her foot charming.","她的双眸乌黑发亮、顾盼生辉；她举止优雅，玉足纤纤。"
"An experienced man of pleasure would not have given her more than thirty years, her forehead was so girlish.","即使一个猎艳无数的人也看不出她已三十多岁，因为她的前额显得那么娇嫩年轻。"
"She had all the most transient delicate detail of youth in her face.","她脸上每一个小细节都展示着青春活力。"
"In character she seemed to me to resemble the Comtesse de Lignolles and the Marquise de B—, two feminine types always fresh in the memory of any young man who has read Louvet’s romance.","至于性格方面，我觉得她像利尼奥勒伯爵夫人和B侯爵夫人的混合体——这两个典型的女性形象永远鲜明地刻在读过卢韦那本小说的青年人头脑里。"
"In a moment I saw how things stood, and took a diplomatic course that would have done credit to an old ambassador.","我一下子就看穿了这对夫妇的所有秘密，并当即作出一个决定。这个决定非常灵活圆滑，仿佛出自一个老练的外交家。"
"For once, and perhaps for the only time in my life, I used tact, and knew in what the special skill of courtiers and men of the world consists.","也许那是我一生中唯一一次使用权谋，也只有那一回，我才弄明白一般朝臣和上流社会人士处世手腕的奥妙所在。"
"I have had so many battles to fight since those heedless days, that they have left me no time to distil all the least actions of daily life, and to do everything so that it falls in with those rules of etiquette and good taste which wither the most generous emotions.","自那些无忧无虑的日子以后，我一直忙于人生的搏斗，不可能分析生活中极细小的行为，只能按礼仪和社会体统的要求行事，致使那些最高尚的情感全都枯竭了。"
"“M. le Comte,” I said with an air of mystery, “I should like a few words with you,” and I fell back a pace or two.","“伯爵先生，我想跟您单独谈谈。”我故作神秘地说，并且向后退了几步。"
"He followed my example.","伯爵跟在我后面。"
"Juliette left us together, going away unconcernedly, like a wife who knew that she can learn her husband’s secrets as soon as she chooses to know them.","朱丽叶让我们单独在一起，自己毫不在意地走开了，因为她确信，什么时候她想知道丈夫的秘密，就准能知道。"
"I told the Count briefly of the death of my traveling companion.","我把旅伴之死简短地向伯爵叙述了一遍。"
"The effect produced by my news convinced me that his affection for his young collaborator was cordial enough, and this emboldened me to make reply as I did.","伯爵听了这个消息以后的反应，说明他对他年轻的助手怀有相当深的好感。这一发现壮了我的胆，使我敢于在后来的对话中作出如下的回答。"
"“My wife will be in despair,” cried he; “I shall be obliged to break the news of this unhappy event with great caution.”","“我太太知道了会很悲伤的，”他吃惊地说，“我必须十分小心谨慎地把这件不幸的事告诉她。”"
"“Monsieur,” said I, “I addressed myself to you in the first instance, as in duty bound.","“先生，”我说，“我首先跟您谈，这就尽了我的一项责任。"
"I could not, without first informing you, deliver a message to Mme. la Comtesse, a message intrusted to me by an entire stranger; but this commission is a sort of sacred trust, a secret of which I have no power to dispose.","我不愿意不通知您，就把一个素昧平生的人托我捎给伯爵夫人的东西交给她。但是，这是一项神圣的托付，也是一个我无权支配的秘密。"
"From the high idea of your character which he gave me, I felt sure that you would not oppose me in the fulfilment of a dying request.","从他的言谈里，我知道您为人极好，我想您是不会阻止我完成他的遗愿的。"
"Mme. la Comtesse will be at liberty to break the silence which is imposed upon me.”","至于以后，夫人完全有自由向您讲出我不得不保守的这个秘密。”"
"At this eulogy, the Count swung his head very amiably, responded with a tolerably involved compliment, and finally left me a free field.","听到如此称赞，这位贵人很得意地晃了晃脑袋，回了一句含糊不清的恭维话，最后表示由我自便。"
"We returned to the house.","我们走回屋内。"
"The bell rang, and I was invited to dinner.","这时，晚饭的钟声在庄园敲响，我被邀请与主人共进晚餐。"
"As we came up to the house, a grave and silent couple, Juliette stole a glance at us.","我们进入房内，朱丽叶见我们俩神情严肃、一言不发，便偷偷地观察我们。"
"Not a little surprised to find her husband contriving some frivolous excuse for leaving us together, she stopped short, giving me a glance—such a glance as women only can give you.","过了一会儿，她丈夫找了个小小的借口，让我们单独在一起，她变得更加惊奇了。她突然停下了脚步，瞟了我一眼——只有女人才能用那种目光看人。"
"In that look of hers there was the pardonable curiosity of the mistress of the house confronted with a guest dropped down upon her from the skies and innumerable doubts, certainly warranted by the state of my clothes, by my youth and my expression, all singularly at variance; there was all the disdain of the adored mistress, in whose eyes all men save one are as nothing; there were involuntary tremors and alarms; and, above all, the thought that it was tiresome to have an unexpected guest just now, when, no doubt, she had been scheming to enjoy full solitude for her love.","她的目光里含着好奇——一位主妇看到家里从天而降似地来了一个不速之客，当然可以这样好奇地看他；她的眼光里含着疑问——确实，我的穿着打扮、年龄和相貌形成那么奇特的对照，无怪她有疑问！她的目光带着傲慢——被人狂热地爱着的女人往往如此，因为在她们眼里，世上的男人除却一个，其他的都不值一顾；她的目光里还含着不由自主的恐惧、害怕以及厌烦，因为她曾计划着享受与情人单独在一起的幸福，现在却要接待一个不期而至的客人。"
"This mute eloquence I understood in her eyes, and all the pity and compassion in me made answer in a sad smile.","我懂得她目光中无声的语言，于是回报了一个充满怜悯和同情的悲伤的微笑。"
"I thought of her, as I had seen her for one moment, in the pride of her beauty; standing in the sunny afternoon in the narrow alley with the flowers on either hand; and as that fair wonderful picture rose before my eyes, I could not repress a sigh.","这时，我想到，在这晴朗的日子里，她站在两旁开满鲜花的小径中间，那美丽的容貌真是光彩照人。看着眼前这位令人赞叹的如画美人，我禁不住叹了口气。"
"“Alas, madame, I have just made a very arduous journey—, undertaken solely on your account.”","“唉！夫人，我刚刚经历了一次很艰难的旅行，是为——您一个人而来的。”"
"“Sir!”","“先生！”"
"“Oh! it is on behalf of one who calls you Juliette that I am come,” I continued.","“哦！”我接着说，“我是代表一个把您称为朱丽叶的人来的。”"
"Her face grew white.","她的脸变得苍白。"
"“You will not see him to-day.”","“您今天见不到他了。”"
"“Is he ill?” she asked, and her voice sank lower.","“他病了？”她问道，声音立刻低了下去。"
"“Yes.","“是的，"
"But for pity’s sake, control yourself....","“但是，令人遗憾的是，我求您克制住自己的感情…… "
"He intrusted me with secrets that concern you, and you may be sure that never messenger could be more discreet nor more devoted than I.”","他托我交给您一些与您有关的秘密物件。请相信，不会有比我更能守口如瓶、忠人之事的信使了。”"
"“What is the matter with him?”","“他出什么事了？”"
"“How if he loved you no longer?”","“如果他不再爱您了呢？”"
"“Oh! that is impossible!” she cried, and a faint smile, nothing less than frank, broke over her face.","“啊！那是不可能的！”她叫道，同时不由地露出一丝坦率的微笑。"
"Then all at once a kind of shudder ran through her, and she reddened, and she gave me a wild, swift glance as she asked: ","接着，她似乎突然哆嗦了一下，满脸通红，并用惊恐的目光急速看了我一眼，问我："
"“Is he alive?”","“他还活着吗？”"
"Great God!","上帝啊！"
"What a terrible phrase!","多么可怕的字眼！"
"I was too young to bear that tone in her voice; I made no reply, only looked at the unhappy woman in helpless bewilderment.","我年纪太轻，忍受不了那种声调，一时答不上话来，只是呆呆地看着这个无助而不幸的女人。"
"“Monsieur, monsieur, give me an answer!” she cried.","“先生！先生，回答我呀！”她喊道。"
"“Yes, madame.”","“他活着，夫人。”"
"“Is it true?","“这是真的？"
"Oh! tell me the truth; I can hear the truth.","啊！把真实情况告诉我，我能接受现实。"
"Tell me the truth!","告诉我吧！"
"Any pain would be less keen than this suspense.”","无论什么痛苦，也没有不知他是死是活更叫我难受！”"
"I answered by two tears wrung from me by that strange tone of hers.","我的回答就是眼里忍不住滚出两颗泪珠，因为她说这些话时的语调太奇特了。"
"She leaned against a tree with a faint, sharp cry.","她把身体靠到一棵树上，同时发出一声尖利而微弱的叫喊。"
"“Madame, here comes your husband!”","“夫人，您丈夫来了！”"
"“Have I a husband?” and with those words she fled away out of sight.","“我有个丈夫吗？”说着，她飞快地跑开，不见了。"
"“Well,” cried the Count, “dinner is growing cold.","“好了，”伯爵喊道，“晚饭都快凉了。"
"—Come, monsieur.”","——来吧，先生。”"
"Thereupon I followed the master of the house into the dining-room.","我只得跟着主人走去，他把我领到餐厅。"
"Dinner was served with all the luxury which we have learned to expect in Paris.","晚饭已经摆好，那些丰盛精美的菜肴只有在巴黎才能见到。"
"There were five covers laid, three for the Count and Countess and their little daughter; my own, which should have been HIS; and another for the canon of Saint-Denis, who said grace, and then asked: ","桌上摆着五副餐具，有伯爵一家三口的，还有我的——本应该是他的，最后一副是为圣德尼的一位司铎预备的。司铎做过餐前祷告，后问道："
"“Why, where can our dear Countess be?”","“怎么不见伯爵夫人呢？”"
"“Oh! she will be here directly,” said the Count.","“啊！她马上就会来的。”伯爵回答。"
"He had hastily helped us to the soup, and was dispatching an ample plateful with portentous speed.","他殷勤地先给我们舀了汤，然后给自己舀了满满一盆，并且以惊人的速度吃光了。"
"“Oh! nephew,” exclaimed the canon, “if your wife were here, you would behave more rationally.”","“啊！侄儿，”司铎大声说，“要是你夫人在这儿，你就会理智些了。”"
"“Papa will make himself ill!” said the child with a mischievous look.","“爸爸这么个吃法，会生病的！”小女孩带着狡黠的神情说。"
"Just after this extraordinary gastronomical episode, as the Count was eagerly helping himself to a slice of venison, a housemaid came in with, “We cannot find madame anywhere, sir!”","这段有关饮食学的奇怪的小插曲发生后不久，正当伯爵急切地切一块野味肉时，一个女仆跑来禀告：“先生，我们到处都找不到太太！”"
"I sprang up at the words with a dread in my mind, my fears written so plainly in my face, that the old canon came out after me into the garden.","一听此话，我猛然站起身来，心里害怕发生什么不幸的事，我的脸上一定明显地流露了这种担忧，使得老司铎也跟着我往花园里跑去。"
"The Count, for the sake of appearances, came as far as the threshold.","那位丈夫为了面子原因，一直走到餐厅门口。"
"“Don’t go, don’t go!” called he.","“别走，别走！”他对我们喊道，"
"“Don’t trouble yourselves in the least,” but he did not offer to accompany us.","“你们用不着担心。”可是他没有和我们一道去。"
"We three—the canon, the housemaid, and I—hurried through the garden walks and over the bowling-green in the park, shouting, listening for an answer, growing more uneasy every moment.","司铎、女仆和我——我们三个人一起找遍了大花园的小径、草坪，呼唤着，侧耳细听着，越来越担忧焦虑。"
"As we hurried along, I told the story of the fatal accident, and discovered how strongly the maid was attached to her mistress, for she took my secret dread far more seriously than the canon.","我一面跑，一面叙述这件不幸的事故。我发现女仆和她的女主人极其亲近，因为她比司铎更明白我恐惧的个中原因。"
"We went along by the pools of water; all over the park we went; but we neither found the Countess nor any sign that she had passed that way.","我们看了花园中的水池和所有的地方，但到处也找不到伯爵夫人，也没看见她走过留下的任何痕迹。"
"At last we turned back, and under the walls of some outbuildings I heard a smothered, wailing cry, so stifled that it was scarcely audible.","最后，在沿着一堵墙往回走时，我听到了低沉的、被深深捂住的、唯恐叫人听到的痛哭声。"
"The sound seemed to come from a place that might have been a granary.","声音是从一个曾经用作谷仓的地方传出来的。"
"I went in at all risks, and there we found Juliette.","我抱着碰运气的心态走进去，果然在那里发现了朱丽叶。"
"With the instinct of despair, she had buried herself deep in the hay, hiding her face in it to deaden those dreadful cries—pudency even stronger than grief.","她本能地把自己深深地埋在一堆干草中。她把脸藏在草里，不让人听到她凄惨的哭声——比起悲痛，更多的是出于害羞。"
"She was sobbing and crying like a child, but there was a more poignant, more piteous sound in the sobs.","她像孩子一样地抽噎、啜泣，但是更悲哀，更感人肺腑。"
"There was nothing left in the world for her.","对她来说，世界上什么东西都不存在了。"
"The maid pulled the hay from her, her mistress submitting with the supine listlessness of a dying animal.","女仆把她从干草里扶起来。她像个垂死的动物，身子软瘫、任人摆布。"
"The maid could find nothing to say but “There! madame; there, there—” ","女仆不知该说什么，只能说：“好了，太太，好了——”"
"“What is the matter with her?","“她怎么了？"
"What is it, niece?” the old canon kept on exclaiming.","你怎么了，孩子？”老司铎还在不断地问。"
"At last, with the girl’s help, I carried Juliette to her room, gave orders that she was not to be disturbed, and that every one must be told that the Countess was suffering from a sick headache.","最后，女仆帮着我把朱丽叶抬到卧室里，我再三关照她要看好夫人，对别人只说夫人犯了严重的偏头痛。"
"Then we came down to the dining-room, the canon and I.","然后，我和司铎下楼回到餐厅。"
"Some little time had passed since we left the dinner-table; I had scarcely given a thought to the Count since we left him under the peristyle; his indifference had surprised me, but my amazement increased when we came back and found him seated philosophically at table.","我们离开伯爵已有好一会儿了，走到列柱廊下我才又想起他，他的无动于衷委实令我吃惊。等到看见他冷静地坐在那里用餐，我就更惊讶了。"
"He had eaten pretty nearly all the dinner, to the huge delight of his little daughter; the child was smiling at her father’s flagrant infraction of the Countess’ rules.","他差不多把晚餐全都吃光了，这使他女儿快活不已，因为她觉得亲眼看到爸爸违背妈妈的命令是很有趣的事。"
"The man’s odd indifference was explained to me by a mild altercation which at once arose with the canon.","我从司铎和伯爵之间突然发生的一场小小的口角中，才弄明白为什么这位丈夫对刚才周围发生的事那么不关心。"
"The Count was suffering from some serious complaint.","原来，伯爵患有一种相当严重的疾病。"
"I cannot remember now what it was, but his medical advisers had put him on a very severe regimen, and the ferocious hunger familiar to convalescents, sheer animal appetite, had overpowered all human sensibilities.","病的名称我已记不起来。为了治好这种病，医生规定他严格地节制饮食，所以伯爵一直受着这种饮食制度的约束。现在，他正被康复期病人常有的贪食欲支配着，在他身上，动物的贪欲战胜了人类应有的一切感情。"
"In that little space I had seen frank and undisguised human nature under two very different aspects, in such a sort that there was a certain grotesque element in the very midst of a most terrible tragedy.","在这短短的时间里，我看到了人性截然不同的两个方面的赤裸裸的表现，它们给这可怕的痛苦事件涂上了一抹喜剧色彩。"
"The evening that followed was dreary.","整个夜晚是凄凉的。"
"I was tired.","我很疲倦。"
"The canon racked his brains to discover a reason for his niece’s tears.","司铎绞尽脑汁在猜测侄媳哭泣的原因。"
"The lady’s husband silently digested his dinner; content, apparently, with the Countess’ rather vague explanation, sent through the maid, putting forward some feminine ailment as her excuse.","伯爵在静静地消化他的晚餐。刚才他妻子差贴身女仆向他含糊其辞地解释了自己不舒服的原因，我记得好像推说是妇女生理上的不适，伯爵也就没有再问下去。"
"We all went early to bed.","我们大家都早早就寝。"
"As I passed the door of the Countess’ room on the way to my night’s lodging, I asked the servant timidly for news of her.","一名男仆领我去我的住处。从伯爵夫人的房门前经过时，我怯生生地探问她的情况。"
"She heard my voice, and would have me come in, and tried to talk, but in vain—she could not utter a sound.","伯爵夫人听出我的声音，叫我进去，说是想跟我谈谈——可是她一句话也说不出。"
"She bent her head, and I withdrew.","她低下了头，于是我又退出来。"
"In spite of the painful agitation, which I had felt to the full as youth can feel, I fell asleep, tired out with my forced march.","尽管我以年轻人的真诚分担着女主人精神上所受的残酷刺激，但是在强行军似地走了那么多路以后，我疲惫至极，很快就睡着了。"
"It was late in the night when I was awakened by the grating sound of curtain rings drawn sharply over the metal rods.","深夜，有人用力拉开我的帐幔，幔环在金属杆上发出的刺耳声响把我惊醒了。"
"There sat the Countess at the foot of my bed.","我看见伯爵夫人坐在床脚。"
"The light from a lamp set on my table fell full upon her face.","桌上一盏灯射出的光照在她脸上。"
"“Is it really true, monsieur, quite true?” she asked.","“这是千真万确的吗，先生？”她问道，"
"“I do not know how I can live after that awful blow which struck me down a little while since; but just now I feel calm.","“我不知道在受了这样可怕的打击以后，还怎么能活下去。不过，我此刻的心情是平静的。"
"I want to know everything.”","我要知道全部经过。”"
"“What calm!”","“多么平静啊！”"
"I said to myself as I saw the ghastly pallor of her face contrasting with her brown hair, and heard the guttural tones of her voice.","在我看见她那惨白的脸色和她棕色头发的鲜明对比时，在我听着她说话时在喉头滚动的嗓音时，我心中暗自想到。"
"The havoc wrought in her drawn features filled me with dumb amazement.","她面容上呈现出来的心灵的重创让我心中充满了难以言表的惊奇。"
"Those few hours had bleached her; she had lost a woman’s last glow of autumn color.","仅仅这几个小时，她就已经憔悴无比，像一片入冬的树叶，失去了秋天的色彩。"
"Her eyes were red and swollen, nothing of their beauty remained, nothing looked out of them save her bitter and exceeding grief; it was as if a gray cloud covered the place through which the sun had shone.","她的眼睛又红又肿，完全没有了原来的美丽，只反映出她内心深沉的悲怆，仿佛过去阳光熠熠的地方现在笼罩了一片乌云。"
"I gave her the story of the accident in a few words, without laying too much stress on some too harrowing details.","我用寥寥数语把那个事故讲述了一遍，并没有过分赘述那些让她太痛苦的情节。"
"I told her about our first day’s journey, and how it had been filled with recollections of her and of love.","我向她叙述了我们第一天的旅程，那一天充满了对他们俩爱情的回忆。"
"And she listened eagerly, without shedding a tear, leaning her face towards me, as some zealous doctor might lean to watch any change in a patient’s face.","她急切地听着，一滴泪水也没有流，头向前倾，像是一位热心的医生在探寻病症所在。"
"When she seemed to me to have opened her whole heart to pain, to be deliberately plunging herself into misery with the first delirious frenzy of despair, I caught at my opportunity, and told her of the fears that troubled the poor dying man, told her how and why it was that he had given me this fatal message.","有一个时刻，我觉得她已把心扉整个打开，准备承受所有的痛苦，全然投入到悲痛欲绝的状态之中。于是我抓住这个时机，向她讲述了那可怜的人临终的担忧，以及他为什么和怎样派我传送这不幸的消息。"
"Then her tears were dried by the fires that burned in the dark depths within her.","这时，她的泪水被灵魂最深处喷涌出来的火苗烧干了。"
"She grew even paler.","她的脸色变得更加苍白。"
"When I drew the letters from beneath my pillow and held them out to her, she took them mechanically; then, trembling from head to foot, she said in a hollow voice: ","我拿出藏在枕头下面的信交给她，她机械地接了过去。随后，她全身猛地哆嗦一下，用低沉的声音说："
"“And I burned all his letters!—I have nothing of him left!—Nothing! nothing!”","“我把他给我的信都烧了！我没留下他的任何东西！什么也没有！什么也没有！”"
"She struck her hand against her forehead.","她用手敲打着自己的前额。"
"“Madame—” I began.","“夫人——”我说。"
"She glanced at me in the convulsion of grief.","她嘴角抽搐，悲伤地瞥了我一眼。"
"“I cut this from his head, this lock of his hair.”","“我从他头上剪下这个，他的一缕头发。”"
"And I gave her that last imperishable token that had been a very part of him she loved.","于是，我把她心上人最后的、也是永远不会腐烂的一小部分纪念品给了她。"
"Ah! if you had felt, as I felt then, her burning tears falling on your hands, you would know what gratitude is, when it follows so closely upon the benefit.","啊！如果你的双手也能感觉到她那滚烫的眼泪——就像我那时感觉到的一样，你们也会理解什么叫感激，它有时和恩惠是很接近的。"
"Her eyes shone with a feverish glitter, a faint ray of happiness gleamed out of her terrible suffering, as she grasped my hands in hers, and said, in a choking voice:","伯爵夫人握住我的手，眼睛因激动而发亮，透过极度的痛苦，闪着一星微弱的幸福之光。她用压低的声音说："
"“Ah! you love!","“啊！您的爱情！"
"May you be happy always.","祝愿您永远幸福！"
"May you never lose her whom you love.”","祝您永远别失掉您心爱的人！”"
"She broke off, and fled away with her treasure.","她突然住口，拿着她的宝贝飞快地跑了。"
"Next morning, this night-scene among my dreams seemed like a dream; to make sure of the piteous truth, I was obliged to look fruitlessly under my pillow for the packet of letters.","第二天，这夜间的一幕和我的梦境混在一起，给我一种虚幻的感觉。只是当我在枕头下面寻找那叠信却找不到时，我才确信，那是痛苦的现实。"
"There is no need to tell you how the next day went.","没有必要再描述第二天是如何度过的了。"
"I spent several hours of it with the Juliette whom my poor comrade had so praised to me.","我陪着朱丽叶——我的旅伴曾大加赞赏的那个朱丽叶，又度过了几个钟点。"
"In her lightest words, her gestures, in all that she did and said, I saw proofs of the nobleness of soul, the delicacy of feeling which made her what she was, one of those beloved, loving, and self-sacrificing natures so rarely found upon this earth.","的确，她的任何言谈、举止、行为都说明她心地高尚、感情细腻，是世上为数不多的痴情而忠心的女人之一。"
"In the evening the Comte de Montpersan came himself as far as Moulins with me.","到了晚上，蒙佩尔桑伯爵亲自把我送到穆兰。"
"There he spoke with a kind of embarrassment: ","到了那里，他有点儿尴尬地对我说："
"“Monsieur, if it is not abusing your good-nature, and acting very inconsiderately towards a stranger to whom we are already under obligations, would you have the goodness, as you are going to Paris, to remit a sum of money to M. de—(I forget the name), in the Rue du Sentier; I owe him an amount, and he asked me to send it as soon as possible.”","“先生，我们已经欠您的情了。如果您不认为这是滥用您的好意，或是对一个陌生人冒昧行事，那么，请您将这笔钱带到巴黎——反正您要去那儿——交给桑蒂耶路的某先生（我已忘了他的名字），好吗？这笔钱是我欠他的，他让我赶快还他。”"
"“Willingly,” said I.","“当然可以。”我说。"
"And in the innocence of my heart, I took charge of a rouleau of twenty-five louis d’or, which paid the expenses of my journey back to Paris; and only when, on my arrival, I went to the address indicated to repay the amount to M. de Montpersan’s correspondent, did I understand the ingenious delicacy with which Juliette had obliged me.","我坦然无愧地接过二十五路易一卷的金币，这正好给我作了去巴黎的路费。后来，我如数去还给了那位与伯爵有金钱来往的人。到了巴黎，当我把这笔钱送往指定的人家时，我才明白，朱丽叶是多么机灵巧妙地帮助了我。"
"Was not all the genius of a loving woman revealed in such a way of lending, in her reticence with regard to a poverty easily guessed?","她借给我这笔钱所采取的办法，她对我显而易见的贫寒所持的谨慎态度，不正好表现了一个多情女子的全部智慧吗？"
"And what rapture to have this adventure to tell to a woman who clung to you more closely in dread, saying, “Oh, my dear, not you!","我曾有机会把上面的遭遇讲给一个女人听，她害怕得紧紧抱住我，对我说：“啊！亲爱的，不要！"
"You must not die!”","你可不能死！”"

