"书名带球人是怎样完成他的任务的 （安德鲁·格朗经典棕色童话）短简介一个来自印度的民间传说，关于魔法球，巫婆的奇妙故事。一个人要走多少路才能长大成熟？怎么样的努力才是值得的？什么样的人生才算是有意义？故事通过讲述一个男孩成长为男人的故事给了我们一个很好的答案。这也是主人公一路克服困难，历经挫折，最后顺利完成使命回到家乡的冒险历程。长简介带球人偶遇一个女孩并与她结为夫妻。一天他误食毒浆果，临死之际嘱咐家人将他的遗体放在木桩上。带球人去世之后，家里经常食不果腹。有一天，他女儿意外发现一间堆满食物的小茅屋，从那以后，他们家人就不再为食物而发愁了。此间女儿嫁给了一个之前路过的旅行者，他窥探到了家里的秘密后，佯装重病想吃女孩家人经常去的那间房子的鸟。女孩不顾家里人的强烈反对把鸟杀了，而这时候丈夫这时却改变了心意。另一边是魔法球，它一路滚到了巫婆祖母那里，于是祖母立刻跟着魔法球找到了带球人把他唤醒并带他回家。祖母把带球人当年拿到的金子和桥都埋在了地底下，她希望人们只有通过自己的努力获得他们，最后带球人也回到了他的父母身边。关键字带球人是怎样完成他的任务的；安德鲁•朗格；外研社编译组；短篇小说；民间传说；带球人；魔法；魔法球；巫婆；巫术；比赛；旅行者；奇妙历险；奋斗；冒险；知更鸟；猎人；教育意义；作者（英）安德鲁•朗格作者简介安德鲁·朗格（1844—1912），英国著名文学家、历史学家、诗人、民俗学家，以研究神话、民间传说闻名于世。他认为通过民间传说中的惊异和恐怖的故事可以看到人类过去真实的痕迹。 他于1889年刊行《蓝色童话》以来，到1907年止，又陆续编辑出版了《绿色童话》、《红色童话》、《黄色童话》等十一部《彩色童话集》，自问世以来，历久不衰，备受世界各国儿童们的喜爱。书评语言朴实但很生动，向读者娓娓道来一个曲折的冒险故事，寓意深刻。是否魔法真的无所不能，能代替一切人类的努力呢？故事很具有现实教育意义，告诉人们人类必须依靠自己的努力去获得而不是靠一味地依赖工具或其他捷径。"

"How Ball-Carrier Finished His Task","带球人是怎样完成他的任务的"
"by Andrew Lang","作者：安德鲁·朗格"
"After Ball-Carrier had managed to drown the Bad One so that he could not do any more mischief, he forgot the way to his grandmother’s house, and could not find it again, though he searched everywhere.","为了不让这个坏人再做伤天害理之事，带球人把他淹死了，在此之后，他记不得去他祖母家的路了，尽管他四处寻找，却再也找不到了。"
"During this time he wandered into many strange places, and had many adventures; and one day he came to a hut where a young girl lived.","在这段时间里，他漫步在许多陌生的地方，经历了许多次冒险；有一天，他走到一间茅屋前，那里面住着一个年轻的女孩。"
"He was tired and hungry and begged her to let him in and rest, and he stayed a long while, and the girl became his wife.","他又累又饿，恳求女孩让自己进去休息下，他这一呆就呆了很久，后来，这个女孩成了他的妻子。"
"One morning he saw two children playing in front of the hut, and went out to speak to them.","一天清晨，他看到两个孩子在茅屋前玩耍，就出去想跟他们聊聊。"
"But as soon as they saw him they set up cries of horror and ran away.","但孩子们一看到他就惊恐地尖叫着跑开了。"
"‘They are the children of my sister who has been on a long journey,’ replied his wife, ‘and now that she knows you are my husband she wants to kill you.’","“他们是我姐姐的孩子，我姐姐已经从大老远的地方赶过来了，”他妻子回应道，“因为她知道了你是我的丈夫，她想要杀你。”"
"‘Oh, well, let her try,’ replied Ball-Carrier.","“哦，好吧，让她试试，”带球人回答说，"
"‘It is not the first time people have wished to do that.","“这已经不是第一次有人想要这么做了。"
"And here I am still, you see!’","而我依然活着，你瞧！”"
"‘Be careful,’ said the wife, ‘she is very cunning.’","“当心一点儿，”妻子说，“她可是非常狡猾的。”"
"But at this moment the sister-in-law came up.","而就在这时，这位大姨子出现了。"
"‘How do you do, brother-in-law?","“你好吗，妹夫？"
"I have heard of you so often that I am very glad to meet you.","我经常听人提起你，很高兴见到你。"
"I am told that you are more powerful than any man on earth, and as I am powerful too, let us try which is the strongest.’","别人告诉我，你比地球上任何人都厉害，我同样很厉害，那就让我们试试看谁是最强大的。”"
"‘That will be delightful,’ answered he.","“我乐于奉陪，”他回答道，"
"‘Suppose we begin with a short race, and then we will go on to other things.’","“让我们先来一场短跑比赛，然后再继续比其他的。”"
"‘That will suit me very well,’ replied the woman, who was a witch.","“那正合我意，”那女人回答道，她是个女巫，"
"‘And let us agree that the one who wins shall have the right to kill the other.’","“那我们说好，谁赢了谁就有权利杀死对方。”"
"‘Oh, certainly,’ said Ball-Carrier;’ and I don’t think we shall find a flatter course than the prairie itself—no one knows how many miles it stretches.","“嗯，当然。”带球人说，“我觉得牧场就是最好的比赛场地了——没人知道它的面积有多大。"
"We will run to the end and back again.’","我们先跑到尽头然后再往回跑。”"
"This being settled they both made ready for the race, and Ball-Carrier silently begged the good spirits to help him, and not to let him fall into the hands of this wicked witch.","比赛规则商定之后，他们俩都准备好开始比赛，带球人祈求神奇的力量助他一臂之力，不要让他落到那邪恶的巫婆的手里。"
"‘When the sun touches the trunk of that tree we will start,’ said she, as they both stood side by side.","两人并排站着，巫婆说：“等太阳照到那棵树的树干时，我们就开始跑。”"
"But with the first step Ball-Carrier changed himself into a wolf and for a long way kept ahead.","带球人一开始跑就把自己变成了一匹狼，遥遥领先。"
"Then gradually he heard her creeping up behind him, and soon she was in front.","然而渐渐地他听到她从后面慢慢地追上来，并且很快就超过了他。"
"So Ball-Carrier took the shape of a pigeon and flew rapidly past her, but in a little while she was in front again and the end of the prairie was in sight.","于是带球人又变成鸽子，迅速地飞过她，但是不一会儿她又超在了前面，牧场的尽头就在眼前了。"
"‘A crow can fly faster than a pigeon,’ thought he, and as a crow he managed to pass her and held his ground so long that he fancied she was quite beaten.","“一只乌鸦可以比一只鸽子飞得更快。”他想，于是变成一只乌鸦，超过了巫婆。他已遥遥领先，心想巫婆肯定输了。"
"The witch began to be afraid of it too, and putting out all her strength slipped past him.","巫婆也开始害怕起来，使出浑身的力量超过了他。"
"Next he put on the shape of a hawk, and in this form he reached the bounds of the prairie, he and the witch turning homewards at the moment.","随后他又变成老鹰的模样，就这样他飞到了牧场的边界，他和巫婆在那一刻一起往回飞。"
"Bird after bird he tried, but every time the witch gained on him and took the lead.","他尝试变过一种又一种的鸟，但是每一次巫婆都超过了他领先在前。"
"At length the goal was in sight, and Ball-Carrier knew that unless he could get ahead now he would be killed before his own door, under the eyes of his wife.","最后终点就在眼前了，带球人知道，除非他马上飞到前面，不然他就会在自己家门前当着妻子的面被巫婆杀死。"
"His eyes had grown dim from fatigue, his wings flapped wearily and hardly bore him along, while the witch seemed as fresh as ever.","他的眼睛因为疲累已经变得暗淡无光，他疲倦地拍动着翅膀已经无力再飞行，而巫婆看上去却和之前一样精神抖擞。"
"What bird was there whose flight was swifter than his?","哪只鸟能比他飞得更快呢？"
"Would not the good spirits tell him?","神奇的力量没告诉他吗？"
"Ah, of course he knew; why had he not thought of it at first and spared himself all that fatigue?","啊，当然，他知道了；为什么一开始他没有想到呢？这样就可以让自己免受刚才所有的疲累之苦。"
"And the next instant a humming bird, dressed in green and blue, flashed past the woman and entered the house.","他立刻变成一只蓝绿相间羽毛的蜂鸟，从女巫身边一掠而过飞进屋子。"
"The witch came panting up, furious at having lost the race which she felt certain of winning; and Ball-Carrier, who had by this time changed back into his own shape, struck her on the head and killed her.","巫婆气喘吁吁地赶到，她为输了这场确定能赢的比赛而非常恼怒；而带球人在此之前已经变回自己的模样，他重击她的头部把她杀死了。"
"For a long while Ball-Carrier was content to stay quietly at home with his wife and children, for he was tired of adventures, and only did enough hunting to supply the house with food.","很长一段时间里，带球人与他的妻儿在家里过着安宁的生活，他感到很满足，因为他已厌倦了冒险，他只是打打猎，养家糊口而已。"
"But one day he happened to eat some poisonous berries that he had found in the forest, and grew so ill that he felt he was going to die.","然而有一天，他偶然吃到了一些在森林里找到的有毒浆果，他中毒很深，感觉到自己快要死了。"
"‘When I am dead do not bury me in the earth,’ he said, ‘but put me over there, among that clump of trees.’","“我死后不要把我埋在土里，”他说，“就把我放在树木丛那边。”"
"So his wife and her three children watched by him as long as he was alive, and after he was dead they took him up and laid the body on a platform of stakes which they had prepared in the grove.","于是他的妻子和三个孩子守着他一直到他死去，等他死后他们把他尸体抬起来放在了小树林里事先备好的树桩台面上。"
"And as they returned weeping to the hut they caught a glimpse of the ball rolling away down the path back to the old grandmother.","正当他们哭着回茅屋的时候，他们瞥见魔法球正沿着小路滚回老祖母那里。"
"One of the sons sprang forward to stop it, for Ball-Carrier had often told them the tale of how it had helped him to cross the river, but it was too quick for him, and they had to content themselves with the war club and bow and arrows, which were put carefully away.","其中一个儿子跳到前面把球拦住，因为带球人以前经常跟他们说这只球是怎么样帮助他渡河的，但是球滚得太快了他拦不住，他们不得不用到他们细心收好的粗棍棒和弓箭帮忙。"
"By-and-by some travellers came past, and the chief among them asked leave to marry Ball-Carrier’s daughter.","后来，一些旅行者经过，其中的领头请求要与带球人的女儿结婚。"
"The mother said she must have a little time to think over it, as her daughter was still very young; so it was settled that the man should go away for a month with his friends, and then come back to see if the girl was willing.","母亲说她需要一点儿时间考虑一下，因为女儿还非常年幼；于是他们说定男人先和他朋友离开一个月，之后再回来看女孩是否愿意。"
"Now ever since Ball-Carrier’s death the family had been very poor, and often could not get enough to eat.","自从带球人死后，家里人穷困潦倒，经常食不果腹。"
"One morning the girl, who had had no supper and no breakfast, wandered off to look for cranberries, and though she was quite near home was astonished at noticing a large hut, which certainly had not been there when last she had come that way.","一天清晨，女孩没有吃晚餐，更没有吃早餐，于是出去游荡着寻找蔓越橘，虽然离她家非常近，她看到一间大茅屋后仍非常吃惊，上一次她走那条路时那间茅屋还不存在呢。"
"No one was about, so she ventured to peep in, and her surprise was increased at seeing, heaped up in one corner, a quantity of food of all sorts, while a little robin redbreast stood perched on a beam looking down upon her.","四周没人，于是她冒险往里面窥看，她越看越发震惊，各种各样的食物堆在一个角落里，一只知更鸟栖息在一根横梁上，向下望着她。"
"‘It is my father, I am sure,’ she cried; and the bird piped in answer.","“这是我的父亲，我确定。”她叫道，知更鸟尖叫着回应。"
"From that day, whenever they wanted food they went to the hut, and though the robin could not speak, he would hop on their shoulders and let them feed him with the food they knew he liked best.","从那天起，每当他们饿了，他们就跑去那间茅屋，虽然那只知更鸟不会说话，但它会跳上他们的肩膀让他们喂它东西吃，他们知道他最爱吃什么。"
"When the man came back he found the girl looking so much prettier and fatter than when he had left her, that he insisted that they should be married on the spot.","男人回来时发现，女孩比自己离开她的时候看起来更丰满、更漂亮了，于是他坚持要立马结婚。"
"And the mother, who did not know how to get rid of him, gave in.","这个母亲不知道怎么拒绝他，也只好答应。"
"The husband spent all his time in hunting, and the family had never had so much meat before; but the man, who had seen for himself how poor they were, noticed with amazement that they did not seem to care about it, or to be hungry.","丈夫所有的时间都在打猎，家里从来没有过这么多肉；但是，这个男人曾目睹过他们有多穷困，现在却惊讶地发现家里人似乎不在乎这些，也不担心饿肚子。"
"‘They must get food from somewhere,’ he thought, and one morning, when he pretended to be going out to hunt, he hid in a thicket to watch.","“他们一定是从某个地方得到了食物。”他想。一天早上，他假装出去打猎，躲在灌木丛中暗自观察。"
"Very soon they all left the house together, and walked to the other hut, which the girl’s husband saw for the first time, as it was hid in a hollow.","不一会儿，他们一起离开家走去另一间茅屋，这间屋子是女孩的丈夫第一次见到，因为它隐藏在山谷深处。"
"He followed, and noticed that each one went up to the redbreast, and shook him by the claw; and he then entered boldly and shook the bird’s claw too.","他跟着他们，看到每个人都走到知更鸟身边握下它的爪子；于是他也大胆地走进去握了一下它的爪子。"
"The whole party afterwards sat down to dinner, after which they all returned to their own hut.","接着这群人就开始吃晚饭，饭后他们又都回到自己的小茅屋里。"
"The next day the husband declared that he was very ill, and could not eat anything; but this was only a presence so that he might get what he wanted.","第二天，丈夫声称自己感觉非常不舒服，吃不下任何东西；但这只是装的，只有这样他才可能知道自己想要了解的东西。"
"The family were all much distressed, and begged him to tell them what food he fancied.","家里人非常忧伤，求他告诉他们他想吃什么东西。"
"‘Oh! I could not eat any food,’ he answered every time, and at each answer his voice grew fainter and fainter, till they thought he would die from weakness before their eyes.","“噢！我不能吃任何东西。”他每次都这样回答，每回答一次他的声音就变得越发微弱，微弱到他们认为他就要在他们眼前慢慢虚弱死掉。"
"‘There must be some thing you could take, if you would only say what it is,’ implored his wife.","“一定有什么东西是你可以吃的，你想吃什么尽管说。”他妻子恳求道。"
"‘No, nothing, nothing; except, perhaps—but of course that is impossible!’","“不，没有，没有；除了，也许——但是当然那是不可能的！”"
"‘No, I am sure it is not,’ replied she; ‘you shall have it, I promise—only tell me what it is.’","“不，我确定不会的，”她回答，“你会得到的——只要你告诉我那是什么。”"
"‘I think—but I could not ask you to do such a thing.","“我觉得——但我不能要求你做这样的事。"
"Leave me alone, and let me die quietly.’","别管我，让我安静地死去吧。”"
"‘You shall not die,’ cried the girl, who was very fond of her husband, for he did not beat her as most girls’ husbands did.","“你不会死的，”女孩哭喊道，她深爱着她丈夫，因为他不像其他女孩的丈夫，从不打她。"
"‘Whatever it is, I will manage to get it for you.’","“不管是什么，我会想办法帮你找到。”"
"‘Well, then, I think, if I had that—redbreast, nicely roasted, I could eat a little bit of his wing!’","“好吧，那么，我想，如果我吃了——精心烘烤的知更鸟，我可以吃一点儿他的翅膀！”"
"The wife started back in horror at such a request; but the man turned his face to the wall, and took no notice, as he thought it was better to leave her to herself for a little.","听到这样的要求，妻子害怕地后退了；男人却转过头对着墙，不再搭理她，因为他觉得让她一个人静一静会比较好。"
"Weeping and wringing her hands, the girl went down to her mother.","女孩流着泪紧攥着手，跑到母亲跟前。"
"The brothers were very angry when they heard the story, and declared that, if any one were to die, it certainly should not be the robin.","兄弟们听到这个事非常生气，他们表态道，如果非要有人死，那也一定不是那只知更鸟。"
"But all that night the man seemed getting weaker and weaker, and at last, quite early, the wife crept out, and stealing to the hut, killed the bird, and brought him home to her husband.","但就在那一整夜里，男人似乎变得越来越虚弱了，最后，天刚蒙蒙亮时，妻子蹑手蹑脚地出去，悄悄溜进茅屋，把鸟杀了带回家给丈夫。"
"Just as she was going to cook it her two brothers came in.","她正要煮鸟的时候，她两个兄弟进来了。"
"They cried out in horror at the sight, and, rushing out of the hut, declared they would never see her any more.","他们看到此状，惊恐地大叫，跑出屋子，扬言再也不要见到她。"
"And the poor girl, with a heavy heart, took the body of the redbreast up to her husband.","可怜的女孩心情沉重地把知更鸟的尸体拿给她丈夫。"
"But directly she entered the room the man told her that he felt a great deal better, and that he would rather have a piece of bear’s flesh, well boiled, than any bird, however tender.","但是当她径直走进房间时，男人告诉她自己感觉好多了，比起任何鸟肉，不管有多嫩，我倒宁愿想吃一片精心烹饪的熊肉。"
"His wife felt very miserable to think that their beloved redbreast had been sacrificed for nothing, and begged him to try a little bit.","他妻子想到心爱的知更鸟白白地牺牲了觉得很难过，她求他稍微尝一点儿。"
"‘You felt so sure that it would do you good before,’ said she, ‘that I can’t help thinking it would quite cure you now.’","“你之前这么确定它对你身体有好处，”她说，“这不禁让我觉得它现在会完全治好你的病。”"
"But the man only flew into a rage, and flung the bird out of the window.","男人却只是勃然大怒，把知更鸟扔出窗外。"
"Then he got up and went out.","接着，他起床出去了。"
"Now all this while the ball had been rolling, rolling, rolling to the old grandmother’s hut on the other side of the world, and directly it rolled into her hut she knew that her grandson must be dead.","与此同时魔法球不断地滚啊滚，滚向世界另一边的祖母的茅屋里，它直接滚进了她的屋子，老巫婆知道她的孙子一定已经死了。"
"Without wasting any time she took a fox skin and tied it round her forehead, and fastened another round her waist, as witches always do when they leave their own homes.","和巫婆们外出时做的一样，她立刻拿出一张狐狸皮把它绑在额头，然后又在她腰间缠了一圈。"
"When she was ready she said to the ball: ‘Go back the way you came, and lead me to my grandson.’","准备好了后她对球说：“你原路返回，带我去我孙子那里。”"
"And the ball started with the old woman following.","接着球就开始滚，老妇女跟在后头。"
"It was a long journey, even for a witch, but, like other things, it ended at last; and the old woman stood before the platform of stakes, where the body of Ball-Carrier lay.","即使对于一个巫婆来说，这也是一条漫长的路。然而，和其他东西一样，它最终还是结束了；老妇女站在树桩前面，带球人的尸体躺在上面。"
"‘Wake up, my grandson, it is time to go home,’ the witch said.","“醒醒，我的孙儿，是时候回家了。”巫婆说。"
"And Ball-Carrier stepped down of the platform, and brought his club and bow and arrows out of the hut, and set out, for the other side of the world, behind the old woman.","带球人从桩面上走下来，从茅屋里拿出他的粗棍棒和弓箭，跟着老妇女出发去世界的另一边。"
"When they reached the hut where Ball-Carrier had fasted so many years ago, the old woman spoke for the first time since they had started on their way.","他们出发后，老巫婆一句话都没有说，一直到了多年前带球人曾经禁食的茅屋，老巫婆才第一次开口说话。"
"‘My grandson, did you ever manage to get that gold from the Bad One?’","“我的孙儿，你有从那个坏人那儿拿到金子么？”"
"‘Yes, grandmother, I got it.’","“是的，祖母，我拿到了。”"
"‘Where is it?’ she asked.","“在哪儿啊？”她问。"
"‘Here, in my left arm-pit,’ answered he.","“在这儿，在我左腋窝里。”他回答。"
"So she picked up a knife and scraped away all the gold which had stuck to his skin, and which had been sticking there ever since he first stole it.","于是她拿起一把刀刮下所有粘在他皮肤上的金子，这些金子自从他一开始偷来之后就一直粘在那里。"
"After she had finished she asked again:","她刮完后又问了："
"‘My grandson, did you manage to get that bridge from the Bad One?’","“我的孙儿，你从那个坏人那儿拿到桥了么？”"
"‘Yes, grandmother, I got that too,’ answered he.","“是的，祖母，那个我也拿到了，”他答道。"
"‘Where is it?’ she asked, and Ball-Carrier lifted his right arm, and pointed to his arm-pit.","“在哪儿啊？”她问，带球人又抬起他右臂，指了指他的腋窝。"
"‘Here is the bridge, grandmother,’ said he.","“桥在这儿，祖母。”他说。"
"Then the witch did something that nobody in the world could have guessed that she would do.","接下来巫婆做了些事，世界上没有人可以猜得到她会这么做。"
"First, she took the gold and said to Ball-carrier:","首先，她拿走金子然后对带球人说："
"‘My grandson, this gold must be hidden in the earth, for if people think they can get it when they choose, they will become lazy and stupid.","“我的孙儿，这金子一定要藏在地里，因为如果人们认为他们一旦选择了金子就可以得到它，他们会变得懒惰又愚蠢。"
"But if we take it and bury it in different parts of the world they will have to work for it if they want it, and then will only find a little at a time.’","但是，如果我们拿走它，把它藏在世界不同的地方，那么他们如果想要得到它就要为之奋斗，而且他们一次只能找到一点点。”"
"And as she spoke, she pulled up one of the poles of the hut, and Ball-Carrier saw that underneath was a deep, deep hole, which seemed to have no bottom.","她一边说，一边拔出茅屋的几根竿，带球人看到下面是一个很深很深的洞，那洞似乎深不见底。"
"Down this hole she poured all the gold, and when it was out of sight it ran about all over the world, where people that dig hard sometimes find it.","她把所有金子都倒进洞里，当它消失后，它就会散布于世界各地。只有用心挖的人有时才会在那些地方找到它。"
"And after that was done she put the pole back again.","倒完以后她又把竿放回去。"
"Next she lifted down a spade from a high shelf, where it had grown quite rusty, and dug a very small hole on the opposite side of the hut—very small, but very deep.","接着，她从一个很高的架子上取下一把锈迹斑斑的铁锹，在茅屋的对面——挖了一个很小却很深的洞。"
"‘Give me the bridge,’ said she, ‘for I am going to bury it here.","“把桥给我，”她说，“我要把它埋在这儿。”"
"If anyone was to get hold of it, and find that they could cross rivers and seas without any trouble, they would never discover how to cross them for themselves.","任何人一旦拥有了它，就会发现他们可以毫不费力地渡过河流和大海，他们永远不会知道怎样靠他们自己渡过去。"
"I am a witch, and if I had chosen I could easily have cast my spells over the Bad One, and have made him deliver them to you the first day you came into my hut.","我是一个女巫，如果我想要那样，当你第一天走进我屋子的时候我就可以轻易地对那个坏人施咒，让他把这些东西拿给你。"
"But then you would never have fasted, and never have planned how to get what you wanted, and never have known the good spirits, and would have been fat and idle to the end of your days.","但是那样的话，你就不会禁食，就不会盘算着怎样得到你想要的东西，就永远不会懂得那种神奇的力量，直到你生命的尽头你总是体态臃肿碌碌无为。"
"And now go; in that hut, which you can just see far away, live your father and mother, who are old people now, and need a son to hunt for them.","现在你走吧；在那个你远远就可以看见的茅屋里，住着你的父母，他们现在已经是老人了，需要一个儿子为他们打猎。"
"You have done what you were set to do, and I need you no more.’","你已经完成了你应该做的事，我已经不再需要你了。"
"Then Ball-Carrier remembered his parents and went back to them.","带球人记起了他的父母，于是回到了他们身边。"

