"书名海辛斯王子和可爱小公主短简介大鼻子的不都是情圣，长鼻子也能阻挡爱情。仍然是王子与公主的故事，但没有了可恶的继母和毒苹果，对自身的错误认知差点阻碍了他们的爱情，都是长鼻子惹的祸。在王子追求幸福的过程中，长鼻子总是阻挠他。他终于认识到了自己的鼻子太长了。于是海辛斯王子的鼻子正常了，可爱小公主也获得了自由。他们幸福地生活在一起。 长简介老国王踩到了大猫的尾巴，破除了咒语娶到了公主。巫师恼羞成怒，诅咒他们的儿子有长长的鼻子，除非王子认识到自己的鼻子长得过分，否则永远不会幸福。海辛斯王子在恭维中长大了，自信自己的鼻子非常完美。后来，海辛斯王子爱上了可爱小公主。然而巫师将公主劫走了。在王子独自寻找公主时，他遇到了老国王的朋友——仙女。仙女一再试图让他认清自己的鼻子太长，王子都听不进去。直到海辛斯王子试图亲吻锁在水晶宫的公主，长鼻子总是阻挠他。他终于认识到了自己的鼻子太长了。于是海辛斯王子的鼻子正常了，可爱小公主也获得了自由。他们幸福地生活在一起。 关键字海辛斯王子和可爱小公主；安德鲁·朗格；外研社编译组；勒普兰斯·德博蒙夫人；长鼻子；公主；改变；幸福作者（英）安德鲁·朗格作者简介安德鲁·朗格（1844—1912），生于苏格兰，兼有诗人、小说家、文学评论家和民俗学家等多重身份，以收集和整理世界各地的民间传说及故事而闻名。由他编纂并分别以十二种颜色命名的《彩色童话集》（又称《朗格童话》）中，汇集了许多著名的童话故事与来自欧洲、亚洲、美洲、非洲各地的民间传说，为孩子们创造了一个色彩瑰丽的童话世界。书评大鼻子可能是情圣，长鼻子却能阻挠爱情。仙女真的都住在洞穴里吗？"
"Prince Hyacinth and the Dear Little Princess","海辛斯王子和可爱小公主"
"by Andrew Lang","作者：安德鲁·朗格"
"Once upon a time there lived a king who was deeply in love with a princess, but she could not marry anyone, because she was under an enchantment.","从前，有一位国王深深地爱上了一位公主，但是这位公主被施了魔法，不能嫁给任何人。"
"So the King set out to seek a fairy, and asked what he could do to win the Princess’s love.","于是国王出发去寻找一位仙女，向她询问如何才能赢得公主的爱。"
"The Fairy said to him:","仙女对他说："
"“You know that the Princess has a great cat which she is very fond of.","“你知道公主有只非常宠爱的大猫。"
"Whoever is clever enough to tread on that cat’s tail is the man she is destined to marry.”","公主命中注定要嫁给一个能够踩到大猫尾巴的聪明人。”"
"The King said to himself that this would not be very difficult, and he left the Fairy, determined to grind the cat’s tail to powder rather than not tread on it at all.","国王认为这并不是很难，于是他告别了仙女，下定决心一定要踩住那条猫尾巴，并把它碾成粉末。"
"You may imagine that it was not long before he went to see the Princess, and puss, as usual, marched in before him, arching his back.","你可以想到，没过多久国王就去见了公主，那只猫像往常一样弓起背在他面前走来走去。"
"The King took a long step, and quite thought he had the tail under his foot, but the cat turned round so sharply that he only trod on air.","国王看准时机狠狠踩了下去，可是那只猫突然转了个身让他踩了个空。"
"And so it went on for eight days, till the King began to think that this fatal tail must be full of quicksilver—it was never still for a moment.","连续八天都发生了同样的事情，国王开始怀疑那决定命运的尾巴里一定满是水银——它就从没有停下来过。"
"At last, however, he was lucky enough to come upon puss fast asleep and with his tail conveniently spread out.","终于有一天，他很幸运地发现那只猫睡得死死的，尾巴恰好向外伸着。"
"So the King, without losing a moment, set his foot upon it heavily.","国王不失时机地狠狠踩了下去。"
"With one terrific yell the cat sprang up and instantly changed into a tall man, who, fixing his angry eyes upon the King, said:","那只猫发出一声可怕的嚎叫，一跃而起变成了一个高个子男人，他用愤怒的眼神盯着国王说道："
"“You shall marry the Princess because you have been able to break the enchantment, but I will have my revenge.","“你破解了魔咒，自然可以娶公主，但我会找你复仇的。"
"You shall have a son, who will never be happy until he finds out that his nose is too long, and if you ever tell anyone what I have just said to you, you shall vanish away instantly, and no one shall ever see you or hear of you again.”","你会有一个儿子，除非他发现自己的鼻子太长，否则他永远不会快乐。如果你把我刚刚告诉你的话告诉别人，你会立即消失得无影无踪，没有谁能再看到你的样子或听到你的声音。”"
"Though the King was horribly afraid of the enchanter, he could not help laughing at this threat.","尽管国王很害怕巫师，但他听到威胁后还是止不住哈哈大笑。"
"“If my son has such a long nose as that,” he said to himself, “he must always see it or feel it; at least, if he is not blind or without hands.”","“如果我的儿子真有那么长的鼻子，”他自言自语道，“如果他不是瞎子，也不是没有手的话，他肯定会常常看到或者摸到它。”"
"But, as the enchanter had vanished, he did not waste any more time in thinking, but went to seek the Princess, who very soon consented to marry him.","可等巫师一消失，国王就不再浪费时间想这些，他去找公主，很快公主就答应嫁给他。"
"But after all, they had not been married very long when the King died, and the Queen had nothing left to care for but her little son, who was called Hyacinth.","但遗憾的是国王婚后不久就去世了，王后除了她的儿子什么也不关心，她的儿子叫做海辛斯王子。"
"The little Prince had large blue eyes, the prettiest eyes in the world, and a sweet little mouth, but, alas! his nose was so enormous that it covered half his face.","小王子长着大大的蓝色眼睛，这是世界上最漂亮的眼睛。他还长着一张甜美的小嘴巴，但是，天呀！他的鼻子大得足以遮住半张脸。"
"The Queen was inconsolable when she saw this great nose, but her ladies assured her that it was not really as large as it looked; that it was a Roman nose, and you had only to open any history to see that every hero has a large nose.","王后看到这个大鼻子伤心不已，但是她的女伴们安慰她说，小王子的鼻子并没有看上去那样大。它还是一个罗马鼻子呢，看看历史上哪个英雄不是大鼻子呢！"
"The Queen, who was devoted to her baby, was pleased with what they told her, and when she looked at Hyacinth again, his nose certainly did not seem to her quite so large.","王后钟爱着儿子，很高兴她们这样说。当她再看到海辛斯王子的时候，也不觉得鼻子有那么大了。"
"The Prince was brought up with great care; and, as soon as he could speak, they told him all sorts of dreadful stories about people who had short noses.","王子被精心呵护着长大。他一学会讲话，人们就告诉他许许多多短鼻子人的可怕遭遇。"
"No one was allowed to come near him whose nose did not more or less resemble his own, and the courtiers, to get into favor with the Queen, took to pulling their babies’ noses several times every day to make them grow long.","除了鼻子和王子的差不多大的，任何人都不许接近王子。为了讨好王后，大臣们每天都拽孩子的鼻子好几次，好让他们的鼻子长长。"
"But, do what they would, they were nothing by comparison with the Prince’s.","但是，不论他们怎么做，他们的孩子也长不出王子那样的长鼻子。"
"When he grew sensible he learned history; and whenever any great prince or beautiful princess was spoken of, his teachers took care to tell him that they had long noses.","王子懂事后就开始学习历史。只要谈到伟大的王子或者美丽的公主，他的老师都会特意告诉他：他们都长着长鼻子。"
"His room was hung with pictures, all of people with very large noses; and the Prince grew up so convinced that a long nose was a great beauty, that he would not on any account have had his own a single inch shorter!","他房间挂的所有画都画着长着大鼻子的人。因此，王子长这么大一直深信长鼻子是最美的，他不会因为任何原因让自己的鼻子变短，哪怕仅仅是一英寸。"
"When his twentieth birthday was passed the Queen thought it was time that he should be married, so she commanded that the portraits of several princesses should be brought for him to see, and among the others was a picture of the Dear Little Princess!","当他过了二十岁，王后觉得王子应该结婚了，于是她就命令把几位公主的画像拿来给王子看，这里面就有一幅可爱小公主的画像。"
"Now, she was the daughter of a great king, and would some day possess several kingdoms herself; but Prince Hyacinth had not a thought to spare for anything of that sort, he was so much struck with her beauty.","她是一位伟大国王的女儿，将来会统治好几个国家。但是海辛斯王子已经没有心思想这些了，因为他已经被公主的美貌深深迷住了。"
"The Princess, whom he thought quite charming, had, however, a little saucy nose, which, in her face, was the prettiest thing possible, but it was a cause of great embarrassment to the courtiers, who had got into such a habit of laughing at little noses that they sometimes found themselves laughing at hers before they had time to think; but this did not do at all before the Prince, who quite failed to see the joke, and actually banished two of his courtiers who had dared to mention disrespectfully the Dear Little Princess’s tiny nose!","可是令王子如此着迷的这位公主却长着一个俊俏的小鼻子，这可能是她脸上最漂亮的地方。侍臣们已经养成了一种习惯，时常想也不想就嘲笑起公主的小鼻子，这可让他们烦恼了一阵。他们可不敢当着王子的面这么做，因为王子可不觉得这有什么好笑的。实际上，王子还放逐了对可爱小公主小巧鼻子出言不逊的两位大臣。"
"The others, taking warning from this, learned to think twice before they spoke, and one even went so far as to tell the Prince that, though it was quite true that no man could be worth anything unless he had a long nose, still, a woman’s beauty was a different thing; and he knew a learned man who understood Greek and had read in some old manuscripts that the beautiful Cleopatra herself had a “tip-tilted” nose!","受到了这样的警告，其他的大臣都学会了想好了再开口。有位大臣甚至告诉王子，虽然一个男人没有大鼻子就一无是处，但是女人的美是不同的。他就认识一位了解古希腊历史的博学之士，他在一些古老的手抄本里读到过：美丽的克里奥佩特拉本人也有一个向上翘的小鼻子。"
"The Prince made him a splendid present as a reward for this good news, and at once sent ambassadors to ask the Dear Little Princess in marriage.","王子为此重重奖赏了这位大臣，并立刻派使者去向可爱小公主求婚。"
"The King, her father, gave his consent; and Prince Hyacinth, who, in his anxiety to see the Princess, had gone three leagues to meet her was just advancing to kiss her hand when, to the horror of all who stood by, the enchanter appeared as suddenly as a flash of lightning, and, snatching up the Dear Little Princess, whirled her away out of their sight!","公主的父王同意了这门婚事。海辛斯王子急着见到公主，走了三里格终于见到了她。他刚要上前亲吻公主的手，令在场的人不寒而栗的事情就发生了，巫师像闪电一般倏然出现了，一把抓住公主把她卷走了。"
"The Prince was left quite unconsolable, and declared that nothing should induce him to go back to his kingdom until he had found her again, and refusing to allow any of his courtiers to follow him, he mounted his horse and rode sadly away, letting the animal choose his own path.","王子伤心欲绝，发誓在找到公主之前绝不回自己的王国。拒绝了大臣们的随扈，他骑上马伤心地走了，任由马儿自己选择道路。"
"So it happened that he came presently to a great plain, across which he rode all day long without seeing a single house, and horse and rider were terribly hungry, when, as the night fell, the Prince caught sight of a light, which seemed to shine from a cavern.","他漫无目的地来到了一片平原，在平原上走了一整天他都没有看到一座房子，王子和他的马都饿坏了。夜幕降临的时候，王子看到了一点儿亮光，好像是从洞穴里发出来的。"
"He rode up to it, and saw a little old woman, who appeared to be at least a hundred years old.","他骑马过去，看到了一位老妇人，她看上去至少有一百岁了。"
"She put on her spectacles to look at Prince Hyacinth, but it was quite a long time before she could fix them securely because her nose was so very short.","老妇人戴上眼镜看了看海辛斯王子，但是这花了她很长时间，因为她的鼻子太短了，带好一副大眼镜可不那么容易。"
"The Prince and the Fairy (for that was who she was) had no sooner looked at one another than they went into fits of laughter, and cried at the same moment, “Oh, what a funny nose!”","王子和仙女（因为这就是仙女）一看清楚对方就笑了起来，同时大叫道：“多滑稽的鼻子！”"
"“Not so funny as your own,” said Prince Hyacinth to the Fairy; “but, madam, I beg you to leave the consideration of our noses—such as they are—and to be good enough to give me something to eat, for I am starving, and so is my poor horse.”","“我的还没有您自己的鼻子滑稽呢，”海辛斯王子对仙女说；“但是，夫人，求您不要再管我们的鼻子了，它们就是这样了，求求您给我和我可怜的马一些吃的吧，我们都饿坏了。”"
"“With all my heart,” said the Fairy.","“非常乐意为您效劳，”仙女说。"
"“Though your nose is so ridiculous you are, nevertheless, the son of my best friend.","“虽然你的鼻子这么滑稽可笑，你可是我最好朋友的儿子。"
"I loved your father as if he had been my brother.","我像爱亲兄弟一样爱着你的父亲。"
"Now he had a very handsome nose!”","他可有一个非常英俊的鼻子！”"
"“And pray what does mine lack?” said the Prince.","“请问我的鼻子缺少了什么？”王子问道。"
"“Oh! it doesn’t lack anything,” replied the Fairy.","“哦！它什么也不缺，”仙女回答道，"
"“On the contrary quite, there is only too much of it.","“恰恰相反，它太长了。"
"But never mind, one may be a very worthy man though his nose is too long.","但是没有关系，一个人鼻子长也可以是个有用的人。"
"I was telling you that I was your father’s friend; he often came to see me in the old times, and you must know that I was very pretty in those days; at least, he used to say so.","我说过，我是你父亲的朋友，过去他常常来看我，你要知道我那时候可是非常漂亮的，至少他总是这么说。"
"I should like to tell you of a conversation we had the last time I ever saw him.”","我应该告诉你我们最后一次见面时的对话。”"
"“Indeed,” said the Prince, “when I have supped it will give me the greatest pleasure to hear it; but consider, madam, I beg of you, that I have had nothing to eat to-day.”","“其实，”王子说，“要是我吃了晚饭，我会非常乐意听您说的；但是，夫人，请您想想，我今天一天什么都没有吃。”"
"“The poor boy is right,” said the Fairy; “I was forgetting.","“可怜的孩子，你是对的。”仙女说到，“我忘了这件事了。"
"Come in, then, and I will give you some supper, and while you are eating I can tell you my story in a very few words—for I don’t like endless tales myself.","进来，我会给你弄一些晚饭，你吃饭的时候我就能简短地告诉你我的故事——因为我自己也不喜欢没完没了的故事。"
"Too long a tongue is worse than too long a nose, and I remember when I was young that I was so much admired for not being a great chatterer.","长舌头可比长鼻子更糟糕，我记得我年轻的时候因为不爱饶舌而被大大赞誉。"
"They used to tell the Queen, my mother, that it was so.","他们常常这样对我的母后说。"
"For though you see what I am now, I was the daughter of a great king.","别看我现在这副模样，我可是一位伟大国王的女儿。"
"My father—”","我的父王……”"
"“Your father, I dare say, got something to eat when he was hungry!” interrupted the Prince.","“您的父王，我敢说，在他饿的时候一定会有吃的吧！”王子打断道。"
"“Oh! certainly,” answered the Fairy, “and you also shall have supper directly.","“哦，那当然，”仙女回答到，“你也马上就有晚餐吃了。"
"I only just wanted to tell you—”","我只是想告诉你……”"
"“But I really cannot listen to anything until I have had something to eat,” cried the Prince, who was getting quite angry; but then, remembering that he had better be polite as he much needed the Fairy’s help, he added:","“如果再不吃东西，我真的什么都听不进去了。”王子嚷到，他已经很生气了；但意识到他需要仙女的帮助，他觉得最好还是礼貌点儿，他接着说道："
"“I know that in the pleasure of listening to you I should quite forget my own hunger; but my horse, who cannot hear you, must really be fed!”","“我知道在聆听您的话的快乐中，我应该忘记自己的饥饿；但我的马听不懂您的话，确实得吃点儿东西了！”"
"The Fairy was very much flattered by this compliment, and said, calling to her servants:","仙女听了恭维很开心，叫来仆人准备晚餐，说道："
"“You shall not wait another minute, you are so polite, and in spite of the enormous size of your nose you are really very agreeable.”","“你马上就可以吃了，你很有礼貌，除了你超大号的鼻子，你真是个令人愉快的人。”"
"“Plague take the old lady!","“烦人的老太婆！"
"How she does go on about my nose!” said the Prince to himself.","她怎么老是对我的鼻子喋喋不休！”王子自言自语道。"
"“One would almost think that mine had taken all the extra length that hers lacks!","“别人会以为我把她鼻子上缺的那块安在我鼻子上了呢！"
"If I were not so hungry I would soon have done with this chatterpie who thinks she talks very little!","我要不是这么饿，我很快就会忍受不了这个自以为话少的话痨！"
"How stupid people are not to see their own faults!","认不清自己缺点的人是多么愚蠢啊！"
"That comes of being a princess: she has been spoiled by flatterers, who have made her believe that she is quite a moderate talker!”","这都是因为她是一位公主：她被溜须拍马的人给宠坏了，这些人让她相信自己是个寡言少语的人！”"
"Meanwhile the servants were putting the supper on the table, and the prince was much amused to hear the Fairy who asked them a thousand questions simply for the pleasure of hearing herself speak; especially he noticed one maid who, no matter what was being said, always contrived to praise her mistress’s wisdom.","同时，她的仆人正把晚餐摆上桌，仙女只是为了听见自己说话高兴就问了他们成百上千个问题。王子饶有兴趣地听着，他特别注意到有个女仆不论她的主人说什么总想办法赞扬女主人的智慧。"
"""well!""he thought,as he ate his supper,""I'm very glad i came here.","“啊！”他一边吃晚餐一边想，“我真高兴我来了这儿。"
"This just shows me how sensible I have been in never listening to flatterers.","这恰恰说明我是多么的明智，因为我从不听奉承话。"
"People of that sort praise us to our faces without shame, and hide our faults or change them into virtues.","那些人当着我们的面奉承我们也不脸红，掩饰我们的缺点，甚至把它们说成是优点。"
"For my part I never will be taken in by them.","而我不会被他们蒙骗。"
"I know my own defects, I hope.”","我想我还是清楚自己的缺点的。”"
"Poor Prince Hyacinth!","可怜的海辛斯王子！"
"He really believed what he said, and hadn’t an idea that the people who had praised his nose were laughing at him, just as the Fairy’s maid was laughing at her; for the Prince had seen her laugh slyly when she could do so without the Fairy’s noticing her.","他相信自己说的，一点儿不知道那些夸赞他鼻子的人嘲笑他，就如同仙女的女仆嘲笑仙女一样；因为王子看到女仆趁仙女不注意的时候偷偷嘲笑她。"
"However, he said nothing, and presently, when his hunger began to be appeased, the Fairy said:","尽管如此，他什么也没有说，等他吃饱了，仙女说："
"“My dear Prince, might I beg you to move a little more that way, for your nose casts such a shadow that I really cannot see what I have on my plate.","“亲爱的王子，介意我请你稍微移开一点儿吗？因为你鼻子投下的阴影让我看不清楚盘子里的食物了。"
"Ah! thanks.","哦！谢谢。"
"Now let us speak of your father.","现在让我们来谈谈你的父亲吧。"
"When I went to his Court he was only a little boy, but that is forty years ago, and I have been in this desolate place ever since.","当我去他的宫殿的时候，他还是个小男孩，但那是四十年前了，我从那以后就一直住在这个与世隔绝的地方。"
"Tell me what goes on nowadays; are the ladies as fond of amusement as ever?","告诉我这个时代的事情吧，女士们还那么喜欢娱乐吗？"
"In my time one saw them at parties, theatres, balls, and promenades every day.","在我那个时代，人们每天都在聚会、看戏、跳舞和骑马。"
"Dear me! what a long nose you have!","天啊！你的鼻子可真长！"
"I cannot get used to it!”","我实在看不习惯！”"
"“Really, madam,” said the Prince, “I wish you would leave off mentioning my nose.","“是吗？夫人，”王子说，“我希望您能别再提我的鼻子了。"
"It cannot matter to you what it is like.","它的样子对您来说又有什么要紧。"
"I am quite satisfied with it, and have no wish to have it shorter.","我对它很满意，也不希望它变短。"
"One must take what is given one.”","上帝给了什么，人都应该坦然接受。"
"“Now you are angry with me, my poor Hyacinth,” said the Fairy, “and I assure you that I didn’t mean to vex you; on the contrary, I wished to do you a service.","“看来你生我气了，可怜的海辛斯王子，”仙女说，“我向你保证我并不是想冒犯你；相反，我是想帮助你。"
"However, though I really cannot help your nose being a shock to me, I will try not to say anything about it.","尽管我对你的鼻子感到震惊，但我会试着不再说它了。"
"I will even try to think that you have an ordinary nose.","我甚至会试着想象你有一个正常的鼻子。"
"To tell the truth, it would make three reasonable ones.”","说实在的，它都有三个正常鼻子加在一起那么大了。”"
"The Prince, who was no longer hungry, grew so impatient at the Fairy’s continual remarks about his nose that at last he threw himself upon his horse and rode hastily away.","王子已经不饿了，也越来越没有耐性听仙女谈他的鼻子了。最后王子骑上马，飞驰而去。"
"But wherever he came in his journeyings he thought the people were mad, for they all talked of his nose, and yet he could not bring himself to admit that it was too long, he had been so used all his life to hear it called handsome.","但是,不论他到了哪里，人们都议论他的鼻子，他觉得那些人都疯了。他还是不能承认他的鼻子太长了，他长这么大习惯被称赞英俊了。"
"The old Fairy, who wished to make him happy, at last hit upon a plan.","老仙女希望他幸福，最终想出了一个办法。"
"She shut the Dear Little Princess up in a palace of crystal, and put this palace down where the Prince would not fail to find it.","她把公主关在一个水晶宫殿里，然后把宫殿安置在王子能够找到的地方。"
"His joy at seeing the Princess again was extreme, and he set to work with all his might to try to break her prison; but in spite of all his efforts he failed utterly.","再次见到公主，王子欣喜若狂。他试图砸开她的牢笼,但不管他怎么努力地砸，还是砸不开。"
"In despair he thought at least that he would try to get near enough to speak to the Dear Little Princess, who, on her part, stretched out her hand that he might kiss it; but turn which way he might, he never could raise it to his lips, for his long nose always prevented it.","绝望中，王子想哪怕离公主近一点儿，跟公主说说话也好啊。公主将手伸出来想让王子吻她，但是不论王子怎么转到身体，他都吻不到公主，因为他的长鼻子总是妨碍他。"
"For the first time he realized how long it really was, and exclaimed:","他头一次意识到他的鼻子太长了，说道："
"“Well, it must be admitted that my nose is too long!”","“哦，必须得承认，我的鼻子太长了！”"
"In an instant the crystal prison flew into a thousand splinters, and the old Fairy, taking the Dear Little Princess by the hand, said to the Prince:","水晶监牢一下子就成了成千上万的碎片，老仙女拉着可爱小公主的手对王子说："
"“Now, say if you are not very much obliged to me.","“现在，你是不是应该感激我呢？"
"Much good it was for me to talk to you about your nose!","我是好心才提你的鼻子的！"
"You would never have found out how extraordinary it was if it hadn’t hindered you from doing what you wanted to.","要不是鼻子妨碍你做你想做的事情，你永远也不会发现它是多么反常。"
"You see how self-love keeps us from knowing our own defects of mind and body.","你瞧，自负让我们看不到自己身心上的缺陷。"
"Our reason tries in vain to show them to us; we refuse to see them till we find them in the way of our interests.”","我们的理智徒劳地试图让我们了解这些，但我们还是对它们视而不见，直到它妨碍我们得到我们感兴趣的东西。”"
"Prince Hyacinth, whose nose was now just like anyone’s else, did not fail to profit by the lesson he had received.","海辛斯王子的鼻子现在和正常人一样了。他也牢牢记住了这个教训。"
"He married the Dear Little Princess, and they lived happily ever after. ","王子和可爱小公主结了婚并永远幸福快乐地生活在一起。"

