"书名一只乌龟的故事和一只淘气猴子的故事（安德鲁·朗格经典棕色童话）短简介故事里的乌龟一反人们心中固有的形象，用智慧与勇气一次次冲击着人们的视听，猴子则是一如既往，调皮机警，聪颖活泼，让人爱恨交加。看他们是如何与各种生物周旋，又是如何全身而退，谱写一段又一段的传奇故事。长简介故事中的乌龟与猴子，一个是智慧与谋略的化身，一个集冒险与机智于一身，二者不分伯仲，在森林之中谱写着各自的传奇。在与大象蓝鲸的抗衡之中，乌龟可谓是有勇有谋，将两大生物玩弄于股掌之中；在与牡鹿和狐狸的较量之中，更可见其谋略家的运筹帷幄与足智多谋，将人们心中的固有模型打破重塑，刷新了人们的视听。而猴子则是一如既往的调皮机灵形象，爱冒险，爱生事端，却又总是让别人哑口无言，不知所措，更是让读者爱也不是恨也不是。在与不同森林住户的挑逗之中以及与美洲狮的几番游击战中，猴子的冒险精神可谓是显露无遗，而与美洲狮进行的最后一场生死较量更是将猴子的机警与智慧进行了完美的诠释与展现。关键字一只乌龟的故事和一只淘气猴子的故事；安德鲁·朗格；外研社编译组；大象；鲸鱼；牡鹿； 狐狸；理发师；面包师；小女孩；兔子；美洲狮 作者(英)安德鲁·朗格安德鲁•朗格（1844—1912），英国著名的文学家、历史学家、诗人、民俗学家，以研究神话、民间传说闻名于世，由他编纂并分别以十二种颜色命名的“童话故事集”自1889年问世以来，历久不衰，备受世界各国儿童们的喜爱。书评这个世界有两样东西人们永远不会失去兴趣，一个是宇宙，另一个是森林，二者都充满着神奇与未知。故事将森林与森林里的生物活化在读者眼前，栩栩如生，乍看之下是一个个妙趣横生的故事，实则充满对人生的思索与探讨，堪称“寓教于乐”的典范。 语言没有过多的技巧，通俗易懂，平实却不平淡。故事简单却不肤浅，于笑语之中引发对智慧的赞赏，让思想性更加深入人心。西方一位著名教育家曾这样评价安德鲁·朗编辑的童话：“如果孩子们的世界里没有那神奇美丽的童话，他们的生活将不可想象；如果这座童话乐园里没有安德鲁·朗格所编写的童话，他们的童心就得不到完美的塑造”。"
"Tale of a Tortoise and of a Mischievous Monkey","一只乌龟的故事和一只淘气猴子的故事"
"by Andrew Lang","作者：安德鲁·朗格"
"Once upon a time there was a country where the rivers were larger, and the forests deeper, than anywhere else.","从前有一个国家，那里比其他任何地方的河流更宽广，森林更浓密。"
"Hardly any men came there, and the wild creatures had it all to themselves, and used to play all sorts of strange games with each other.","那里人迹罕至，是野生动物们的天地。动物们常常在一起玩着千奇百怪的游戏。"
"The great trees, chained one to the other by thick flowering plants with bright scarlet or yellow blossoms, were famous hiding-places for the monkeys, who could wait unseen, till a puma or an elephant passed by, and then jump on their backs and go for a ride, swinging themselves up by the creepers when they had had enough.","繁茂的开花植物开满红色和黄色的花，将参天大树彼此链接起来，为猴子们提供了一个极好的隐藏处。猴子们一直躲在里面，等到一头美洲狮或是一头大象经过，就跳到它们背上去兜风，玩够了就攀上匍匐植物，摇荡开去。"
"Near the rivers huge tortoises were to be found, and though to our eyes a tortoise seems a dull, slow thing, it is wonderful to think how clever they were, and how often they outwitted many of their livelier friends.","在河流附近可以看到体型庞大的乌龟。如今乌龟在我们眼中似乎是一种反应迟钝、行动缓慢的生物，但是让人感到奇妙的是，乌龟过去非常聪明，并且靠智慧战胜过很多更加活泼的动物。"
"There was one tortoise in particular that always managed to get the better of everybody, and many were the tales told in the forest of his great deeds.","特别是有这么一只乌龟，它总是比所有的动物都要优秀，很多关于它伟大行为的故事在森林里流传着。"
"They began when he was quite young, and tired of staying at home with his father and mother.","故事最初，乌龟还相当年轻，厌倦了和父母一起一直呆在家里。"
"He left them one day, and walked off in search of adventures.","有一天，它离开父母，出去探险。"
"In a wide open space surrounded by trees he met with an elephant, who was having his supper before taking his evening bath in the river which ran close by.","在一片树木环绕的广袤空地上，它看到一头大象。那头大象在吃晚餐，之后便会去附近的河里沐浴。"
"‘Let us see which of us two is strongest,’ said the young tortoise, marching up to the elephant.","“让我们来看看我们俩当中谁最强。”年轻的乌龟边说边朝着大象走过去。"
"‘Very well,’ replied the elephant, much amused at the impertinence of the little creature; ‘when would you like the trial to be?’","“好啊，”大象被这个鲁莽的小东西逗乐了，答道，“那你准备什么时候开始较量呢？”"
"‘In an hour’s time; I have some business to do first,’ answered the tortoise.","“一个小时之内，不过这之前我有些事要先去处理。”乌龟回答说。"
"And he hastened away as fast as his short legs would carry him.","说完，乌龟就用那几条短腿能跑的最快速度急匆匆地离开了。"
"In a pool of the river a whale was resting, blowing water into the air and making a lovely fountain.","在河流一隅，一头鲸鱼正在休憩，它把水吹到空中，形成一股可爱的喷泉。"
"The tortoise, however, was too young and too busy to admire such things, and he called to the whale to stop, as he wanted to speak to him.","但是这只乌龟年轻气盛，又过于匆忙，无暇欣赏这种美景。它叫鲸鱼停下来，想和鲸鱼谈一谈。"
"‘Would you like to try which of us is the stronger?’ said he.","“你想试试咱俩谁更强吗？”乌龟说道。"
"The whale looked at him, sent up another fountain, and answered: ‘Oh, yes; certainly.","鲸鱼看着乌龟，又射出一股喷泉，然后说道：“哦，想啊，当然想。"
"When do you wish to begin?","你希望什么时候开始呢？"
"I am quite ready.’","我已经准备好了。”"
"‘Then give me one of your longest bones, and I will fasten it to my leg.","“那把你最长的骨头给我一根，我会把它固定在我的腿上。"
"When I give the signal, you must pull, and we will see which can pull the hardest.’","等我发出信号，你就拉，看看谁的力气大。”"
"‘Very good,’ replied the whale; and he took out one of his bones and passed it to the tortoise.","“很好。”鲸鱼回答道，然后取出自己的一根骨头递给乌龟。"
"The tortoise picked up the end of the bone in his mouth and went back to the elephant.","乌龟衔起骨头末端，回到大象身边。"
"‘I will fasten this to your leg,’ said he, ‘in the same way as it is fastened to mine, and we must both pull as hard as we can.","“我把这根骨头固定在你的腿上，”乌龟说，“并以同样的方式固定在我的腿上，然后我们俩使尽全力拉。"
"We shall soon see which is the stronger.’","要不了多久，我们就会知道谁更强。”"
"So he wound it carefully round the elephant’s leg, and tied it in a firm knot.","于是乌龟将骨头仔细地缠绕在大象的腿上，打了一个牢固的结。"
"‘Now!’ cried he, plunging into a thick bush behind him.","“现在开始！”乌龟叫道，纵身投入身后浓密的灌木丛中。"
"The whale tugged at one end, and the elephant tugged at the other, and neither had any idea that he had not the tortoise for his foe.","鲸鱼拉着骨头的一端，大象拉着另一端，俩人谁也不知道自己的对手其实并不是乌龟。"
"When the whale pulled hardest the elephant was dragged into the water; and when the elephant pulled the hardest the whale was hauled on to the land.","鲸鱼力气大的时候，大象就被拖入水中，而当大象力气大的时候，鲸鱼就被拖到岸上来。"
"They were very evenly matched, and the battle was a hard one.","双方势均力敌，战役十分艰难。"
"At last they were quite tired, and the tortoise, who was watching, saw that they could play no more.","最后两方都筋疲力尽。乌龟一直观察着，看到两方都无法再比下去了。"
"So he crept from his hiding-place, and dipping himself in the river, he went to the elephant and said: ‘I see that you really are stronger than I thought.","于是乌龟从灌木丛中慢悠悠地爬出来，在河里泡了泡，来到大象身边说：“我发现你真的比我想象中的要强。"
"Suppose we give it up for to-day?’","要不今天咱们就到此为止？”"
"Then he dried himself on some moss and went to the whale and said: ‘I see that you really are stronger than I thought.","随后乌龟又在苔藓上将身体擦干，来到鲸鱼身边说道：“我发现你真的比我想象中的要强。"
"Suppose we give it up for to-day?’","要不今天咱们就到此为止？”"
"The two adversaries were only too glad to be allowed to rest, and believed to the end of their days that, after all, the tortoise was stronger than either of them.","两个对手获准可以休息，喜出望外，并且终其一生都坚信乌龟比它们任何一方都要强。"
"A day or two later the young tortoise was taking a stroll, when he met a fox, and stopped to speak to him.","一两天后，年轻的乌龟正在散步，看到一只狐狸，就停下来和它说话。"
"‘Let us try,’ said he in a careless manner, ‘which of us can lie buried in the ground during seven years.’","“让我们来比一比，”乌龟漫不经心地说道，“看谁能在地里埋上七年。”"
"‘I shall be delighted,’ answered the fox, ‘only I would rather that you began.’","“我会很乐意的，”狐狸回答说，“只不过我希望你先开始。”"
"‘It is all the same to me,’ replied the tortoise; ‘if you come round this way to-morrow you will see that I have fulfilled my part of the bargain.’","“对我来说都一样，”乌龟回道，“明天你来的时候，就会看到我已经完成我的任务了。”"
"So he looked about for a suitable place, and found a convenient hole at the foot of an orange tree.","于是乌龟四下看了看，想找个合适的地方，然后在一棵橘子树下发现了一个十分方便的洞。"
"He crept into it, and the next morning the fox heaped up the earth round him, and promised to feed him every day with fresh fruit.","乌龟爬进了洞里。第二天早晨，狐狸将土堆在乌龟身上，并答应每天给乌龟送新鲜水果吃。"
"The fox so far kept his word that each morning when the sun rose he appeared to ask how the tortoise was getting on.","狐狸一直遵守着诺言，每天早上太阳升起的时候，他就会露面问一问乌龟过得怎样。"
"‘Oh, very well; but I wish you would give me some fruit,’ replied he.","“哦，很好，但是我希望你会给我一些水果。”乌龟答道。"
"‘Alas! the fruit is not ripe enough yet for you to eat,’ answered the fox, who hoped that the tortoise would die of hunger long before the seven years were over.","“唉！现在水果不太成熟，还不能吃。”狐狸回答说。它希望乌龟在这七年结束之前早一点儿饿死。"
"‘Oh dear, oh dear!","“哎呀，哎呀！"
"I am so hungry!’ cried the tortoise.","我好饿呀！”乌龟叫喊道。"
"‘I am sure you must be; but it will be all right to-morrow,’ said the fox, trotting off, not knowing that the oranges dropped down the hollow trunk, straight into the tortoise’s hole, and that he had as many as he could possibly eat.","“我知道你肯定很饿，但是明天就会好了。”狐狸说着，慢慢跑开了。它不知道那根中空树干上的橘子落了下来，正好掉进了乌龟所在的洞里，并且是要多少就有多少。"
"So the seven years went by; and when the tortoise came out of his hole he was as fat as ever.","就这样，七年过去了，乌龟从洞里出来的时候还跟先前一样胖。"
"Now it was the fox’s turn, and he chose his hole, and the tortoise heaped the earth round, promising to return every day or two with a nice young bird for his dinner.","现在轮到狐狸了，它选好了自己的洞，然后乌龟把土堆在狐狸身上，并答应每隔一两天就会给狐狸带一只美味的小鸟来当晚餐。"
"‘Well, how are you getting on?’ he would ask cheerfully when he paid his visits.","“你过得怎样？”每次来访的时候，乌龟都会高兴地问道。"
"‘Oh, all right; only I wish you had brought a bird with you,’ answered the fox.","“哦，还行，只是我希望你带了一只鸟儿来。”狐狸回答说。"
"‘I have been so unlucky, I have never been able to catch one,’ replied the tortoise.","“我真是太不走运了，一只鸟儿也没捉到。”乌龟答道，"
"‘However, I shall be more fortunate to-morrow, I am sure.’","“但是，明天我会幸运一点儿的，我敢肯定。”"
"But not many to-morrows after, when the tortoise arrived with his usual question: ‘Well, how are you getting on?’ he received no answer, for the fox was lying in his hole quite still, dead of hunger.","但是没过几天，乌龟过来像往常一样问道：“你过得怎样？”他却没有听到回答，因为狐狸静静地躺在洞里，饿死了。"
"By this time the tortoise was grown up, and was looked up to throughout the forest as a person to be feared for his strength and wisdom.","到这时，乌龟已经长大了，森林里的每个动物都对它的力量与智慧深感敬畏。"
"But he was not considered a very swift runner, until an adventure with a deer added to his fame.","只不过没有人认为它是一个跑步健将，直到与鹿的一次比拼才让它名声大振。"
"One day, when he was basking in the sun, a stag passed by, and stopped for a little conversation.","一天，乌龟正在晒太阳，一只牡鹿经过，停下来和它搭讪。"
"‘Would you care to see which of us can run fastest?’ asked the tortoise, after some talk.","“你愿不愿意跟我比比，看谁跑得快？”谈了一会儿之后，乌龟问道。"
"The stag thought the question so silly that he only shrugged his shoulders.","牡鹿认为这个问题太愚蠢，所以只是耸了耸肩。"
"‘Of course, the victor would have the right to kill the other,’ went on the tortoise.","“当然，胜出的一方将有权杀死另一方。”乌龟继续说道。"
"‘Oh, on that condition I agree,’ answered the deer; ‘but I am afraid you are a dead man.’","“哦，如果是那样，我同意，”牡鹿回答说，“但是我恐怕死的是你。”"
"‘It is no use trying to frighten me,’ replied the tortoise.","“想要吓唬我，一点儿用都没有，”乌龟回答说，"
"‘But I should like three days for training; then I shall be ready to start when the sun strikes on the big tree at the edge of the great clearing.’","“但是我想要三天的时间来训练一下。等到太阳照到这大片空地边上那棵大树上的时候，我就会准备好开始了。”"
"The first thing the tortoise did was to call his brothers and his cousins together, and he posted them carefully under ferns all along the line of the great clearing, making a sort of ladder which stretched for many miles.","乌龟做的第一件事就是将它的兄弟及表兄弟们叫到一起，然后小心地将它们沿途安置在空地周围的篱笆下，排成类似梯子的样式，队伍绵延几英里。"
"This done to his satisfaction, he went back to the starting place.","心满意足之后，乌龟回到起跑的地方。"
"The stag was quite punctual, and as soon as the sun’s rays struck the trunk of the tree the stag started off, and was soon far out of the sight of the tortoise.","牡鹿相当准时，阳光一照到树干上，就开始跑了，并且很快就跑出了乌龟的视线。"
"Every now and then he would turn his head as he ran, and call out: ‘How are you getting on?’ and the tortoise who happened to be nearest at that moment would answer: ‘All right, I am close up to you.’","牡鹿跑的时候，总是时不时地转过头大喊：“你怎么样了？”而那时，正巧相隔最近的乌龟就会回答说：“很好，我离你很近。”"
"Full of astonishment, the stag would redouble his efforts, but it was no use.","牡鹿大吃一惊，于是加倍努力，可是一点儿用也没有。"
"Each time he asked: ‘Are you there?’ the answer would come: ‘Yes, of course, where else should I be?’","每次它问：“你在那儿吗？”回答就会是：“是的，当然在，不然我该在哪儿？”"
" And the stag ran, and ran, and ran, till he could run no more, and dropped down dead on the grass.","牡鹿跑啊，跑啊，跑啊，一直跑到再也跑不动，然后倒在草地上死掉了。"
"And the tortoise, when he thinks about it, laughs still.","那只乌龟每念及此，仍会大笑不已。"
"But the tortoise was not the only creature of whose tricks stories were told in the forest.","但是森林里流传着的那些关于玩把戏的故事里，主角并不全是这只乌龟。"
"There was a famous monkey who was just as clever and more mischievous, because he was so much quicker on his feet and with his hands.","还有一只有名的猴子，它和乌龟一样聪明，因为手脚相当敏捷，所以也更加淘气。"
"It was quite impossible to catch him and give him the thrashing he so often deserved, for he just swung himself up into a tree and laughed at the angry victim who was sitting below.","要抓住它，并给它应有的鞭打，实在不太可能，因为它会恰巧荡进树里，嘲笑坐在树下怒气冲冲的受害者。"
"Sometimes, however, the inhabitants of the forest were so foolish as to provoke him, and then they got the worst of it.","但是，森林里的居住者们有时总是蠢到要去惹它，结果也总是败得一塌糊涂。"
"This was what happened to the barber, whom the monkey visited one morning, saying that he wished to be shaved.","以下就是理发师的遭遇。有一天早晨，猴子来访，说想要刮一下脸。"
"The barber bowed politely to his customer, and begging him to be seated, tied a large cloth round his neck, and rubbed his chin with soap; but instead of cutting off his beard, the barber made a snip at the end of his tail.","理发师向客人礼貌地鞠了一躬，请它坐下，在它脖子上系了一块很大的布，并在它下巴上涂上肥皂。但是理发师并没有给客人刮胡子，而是把客人尾巴末端给剪掉了。"
"It was only a very little bit and the monkey started up more in rage than in pain.","其实只剪了很少一点儿，猴子突然站起来，与其说是痛苦，倒不如说是盛怒。"
"‘Give me back the end of my tail,’ he roared, ‘or I will take one of your razors.’","“把我的尾巴末端还给我，”它咆哮道，“不然我就把你的剃刀拿走。”"
"The barber refused to give back the missing piece, so the monkey caught up a razor from the table and ran away with it, and no one in the forest could be shaved for days, as there was not another to be got for miles and miles.","理发师拒绝把剪掉的那一截还给猴子，于是猴子从桌子上抓起一把剃刀跑掉了。那之后，森林里的动物好几天都不能刮脸了，因为方圆好几英里内再找不到另一把剃刀。"
"As he was making his way to his own particular palm-tree, where the cocoanuts grew, which were so useful for pelting passers-by, he met a woman who was scaling a fish with a bit of wood, for in this side of the forest a few people lived in huts near the river.","猴子有一棵独有的棕榈树，那里生长着可可豆，可以用来攻击路人。在去棕榈树的路上，猴子看到一个女人正在用一小块木头给鱼刮鳞。在森林的这一边，有一小群人居住在河流附近的小屋里。"
"‘That must be hard work,’ said the monkey, stopping to look; ‘try my knife—you will get on quicker.’","“那肯定是件苦差事，”猴子不再看了，说道，“试一下我的刀子——你会弄得快一点儿。”"
" And he handed her the razor as he spoke.","猴子说着将剃刀递给她。"
"A few days later he came back and rapped at the door of the hut.","几天后，猴子回来了，轻轻敲了敲小屋的门。"
"‘I have called for my razor,’ he said, when the woman appeared.","“我来拿回我的剃刀。”女人出现的时候，猴子说道。"
"‘I have lost it,’ answered she.","“我弄丢了。”女人回答说。"
"‘If you don’t give it to me at once I will take your sardine,’ replied the monkey, who did not believe her.","“如果你不马上把它还给我，我就拿走你的沙丁鱼。”猴子不相信女人，回应道。"
"The woman protested she had not got the knife, so he took the sardine and ran off.","女人抗议说没拿那把刀子，于是猴子拿了沙丁鱼跑开了。"
"A little further along he saw a baker who was standing at the door, eating one of his loaves.","没走多远，猴子看到一个面包师正站在门口，嘴里吃着一大块烤过的食物。"
"‘That must be rather dry,’ said the monkey, ‘try my fish’; and the man did not need twice telling.","“一定很干吧，”猴子说道，“尝尝我的鱼吧。”面包师没等猴子再次开口邀请，就把沙丁鱼吃了。"
"A few days later the monkey stopped again at the baker’s hut.","几天后，猴子再次在面包师的小屋前停下来。"
"‘I’ve called for that fish,’ he said.","“我来要回那条鱼。”猴子说。"
"‘That fish?","“那条鱼？"
"But I have eaten it!’ exclaimed the baker in dismay.","可是我已经吃了！”面包师沮丧地解释道。"
"‘If you have eaten it I shall take this barrel of meal in exchange,’ replied the monkey; and he walked off with the barrel under his arm.","“如果你吃了鱼，作为交换，我就该拿走这桶食物。”猴子回答说，然后将桶夹在胳膊下走掉了。"
"As he went he saw a woman with a group of little girls round her, teaching them how to dress hair.","猴子走着，看到一个女人，她身边围着一群小女孩。女人正在教孩子们梳头。"
"‘Here is something to make cakes for the children,’ he said, putting down his barrel, which by this time he found rather heavy.","“这儿有一些东西，可以给孩子们做些蛋糕。”猴子说着放下桶，因为当时它觉得那只桶相当重。"
"The children were delighted, and ran directly to find some flat stones to bake their cakes on, and when they had made and eaten them, they thought they had never tasted anything so nice.","孩子们很高兴，马上跑去找来一些平坦的石头，在上面烤起蛋糕来。她们做好蛋糕，吃完后觉得这是她们吃过的最美味的东西。"
"Indeed, when they saw the monkey approaching not long after, they rushed to meet him, hoping that he was bringing them some more presents.","实际上，没过多久，孩子们看到猴子来的时候，匆忙跑去见它，希望它给她们带来了更多的礼物。"
"But he took no notice of their questions, he only said to their mother: ‘I’ve called for my barrel of meal.’","但是猴子并没有理会孩子们的问题，只是对她们的母亲说道：“我来要回我的那桶食物。”"
"‘Why, you gave it to me to make cakes of!’ cried the mother.","“什么，那是你送给我做蛋糕用的！”母亲喊道。"
"‘If I can’t get my barrel of meal, I shall take one of your children,’ answered the monkey.","“如果我拿不回我的那桶食物，我就带走你的一个孩子，”猴子回答说，"
"‘I am in want of somebody who can bake my bread when I am tired of fruit, and who knows how to make cocoanut cakes.’","“我正需要有人在我吃腻了水果的时候能给我烤面包，并且会烤可可豆面包。”"
"‘Oh, leave me my child, and I will find you another barrel of meal,’ wept the mother.","“哦，把孩子留在我身边，我给你另外找一桶食物。”母亲哭泣道。"
"‘I don’t WANT another barrel, I want THAT one,’ answered the monkey sternly.","“我不要另外一桶，我要我的那一桶。”猴子坚定地回答道。"
"And as the woman stood wringing her hands, he caught up the little girl that he thought the prettiest and took her to his home in the palm tree.","母亲紧握着双手，这时，猴子抓住它认为最可爱的那个小女孩，然后把她带到了棕榈树上的家里。"
"She never went back to the hut, but on the whole she was not much to be pitied, for monkeys are nearly as good as children to play with, and they taught her how to swing, and to climb, and to fly from tree to tree, and everything else they knew, which was a great deal.","女孩再也没有回到小屋去，但是整体而言，她并不太需要同情，因为猴子们差不多和孩子一样，是很好的玩伴。它们教女孩荡秋千、攀爬，从一棵树上飞跃到另一棵树上，还把它们所知道的一切事情都教给她，它们懂的可多了。"
"Now the monkey’s tiresome tricks had made him many enemies in the forest, but no one hated him so much as the puma.","如今，猴子因其恼人的把戏在森林里树敌甚广，但是说起对它的憎恨程度，还没有谁比得上那头美洲狮。"
"The cause of their quarrel was known only to themselves, but everybody was aware of the fact, and took care to be out of the way when there was any chance of these two meeting.","所有人都知道猴子和美洲狮之间发生过争吵，尽管争吵的原因只有当事人自己知道，因此只要看到猴子和美洲狮碰到一起，众人都会小心地避开它们。"
"Often and often the puma had laid traps for the monkey, which he felt sure his foe could not escape; and the monkey would pretend that he saw nothing, and rejoice the hidden puma’s heart by seeming to walk straight into the snare, when, lo!","美洲狮常常给猴子设陷阱，它相信猴子一定逃不掉。而猴子会装作什么也没看见，装模作样地朝着陷阱直走过去，让躲着的美洲狮暗自欢喜，突然，瞧！"
"A loud laugh would be heard, and the monkey’s grinning face would peer out of a mass of creepers and disappear before his foe could reach him.","你会听到一阵大笑，那是猴子在一大片匍匐植物中露出脸，咧着嘴笑着，等到美洲狮快要抓到它时，它就一溜烟不见了。"
"This state of things had gone on for quite a long while, when at last there came a season such as the oldest parrot in the forest could never remember.","它们就这样持续了好长一段时间。最后，迎来了这样一个时期，一个连森林里最为年长的鹦鹉也未曾经历过的时期。"
"Instead of two or three hundred inches of rain falling, which they were all accustomed to, month after month passed without a cloud, and the rivers and springs dried up, till there was only one small pool left for everyone to drink from.","所有人都已经习惯了两三百英寸的降雨量，但是那个时期并没有降雨，而是连着好几个月没有一片云。河流和泉水都干涸了，最后只剩下一个小水塘供所有人饮水。"
"There was not an animal for miles round that did not grieve over this shocking condition of affairs, not one at least except the puma.","方圆好几里内，除了美洲狮，至少没有哪一个动物不为这一境况感到苦恼的。"
"His only thought for years had been how to get the monkey into his power, and this time he imagined his chance had really arrived.","美洲狮几年来唯一想的就是怎样把猴子玩弄于股掌，而这一次，它觉得机会真正来临了。"
"He would hide himself in a thicket, and when the monkey came down to drink—and come he must—the puma would spring out and seize him.","它将躲在灌木丛中，等猴子来喝水——猴子一定会来——就钻出来抓住它。"
"Yes, on this occasion there could be no escape!","是的，在这种情况下，猴子绝对无路可逃。"
"And no more there would have been if the puma had had greater patience; but in his excitement he moved a little too soon.","如果美洲狮再耐心一点儿的话，猴子是绝无可逃之机的，但是美洲狮太过激动，行动早了那么一点点。"
"The monkey, who was stooping to drink, heard a rustling, and turning caught the gleam of two yellow, murderous eyes.","猴子正弯腰喝水，却听到一阵窸窣声，于是回了一下头，看到两只泛黄的眼睛闪烁着凶光。"
"With a mighty spring he grasped a creeper which was hanging above him, and landed himself on the branch of a tree; feeling the breath of the puma on his feet as the animal bounded from its cover.","美洲狮从灌木丛里猛地跳出来。猴子纵身弹跳起来，抓住上空悬挂着的匍匐植物，攀上树枝，感觉到脚上还有美洲狮的气息。"
"Never had the monkey been so near death, and it was some time before he recovered enough courage to venture on the ground again.","猴子从未感到如此接近死亡，花了好一段时间才重拾勇气，冒险回到地面上。"
"Up there in the shelter of the trees, he began to turn over in his head plans for escaping the snares of the puma.","在树木的掩护下，猴子开始想法子躲开美洲狮设下的陷阱。"
"And at length chance helped him.","最后幸运之神垂青了它。"
"Peeping down to the earth, he saw a man coming along the path carrying on his head a large gourd filled with honey.","猴子窥探着地面，看到一个男人沿着小路走来，头上顶着一个葫芦，里面装满了蜂蜜。"
"He waited till the man was just underneath the tree, then he hung from a bough, and caught the gourd while the man looked up wondering, for he was no tree-climber.","猴子一直等着，等到男人正好走到自己所在的树下。这时，它悬挂在一根大树枝上，一把抓住葫芦，而男人只能惊愕地向上望着，因为他不会爬树。"
"Then the monkey rubbed the honey all over him, and a quantity of leaves from a creeper that was hanging close by; he stuck them all close together into the honey, so that he looked like a walking bush.","然后，猴子给自己浑身涂上蜂蜜，并且从悬挂在附近的匍匐植物上摘下大量叶子，一片挨着一片用蜂蜜粘起来，把自己弄得像个活动的灌木丛。"
"This finished, he ran to the pool to see the result, and, quite pleased with himself, set out in search of adventures.","做完这些，它跑到水塘旁去检验了一下成果，对自己感到很满意，于是又开始去探险。"
"Soon the report went through the forest that a new animal had appeared from no one knew where, and that when somebody had asked his name, the strange creature had answered that it was Jack-in-the-Green.","不久，森林里就传出一则消息，说不知从哪里冒出一种新型动物，有人问起它的名字，这个奇怪的生物就回答说它叫绿衣杰克。"
"Thanks to this, the monkey was allowed to drink at the pool as often as he liked, for neither beast nor bird had the faintest notion who he was.","多亏这样，猴子才能无拘无束地去小水塘旁边喝水，因为不管飞禽还是走兽，谁也没有认出它来。"
"And if they made any inquiries the only answer they got was that the water of which he had drunk deeply had turned his hair into leaves, so that they all knew what would happen in case they became too greedy.","如果它们打听，猴子就会说它的毛发之所以变成树叶，是因为喝的都是水塘深处的水，好让它们知道如果变得太贪婪将会发生什么。"
"By-and-by the great rains began again.","没过多久，大雨再一次开始降临。"
"The rivers and streams filled up, and there was no need for him to go back to the pool, near the home of his enemy, the puma, as there was a large number of places for him to choose from.","河流和小溪里的水满了，猴子再不用回到它的敌人美洲狮住所附近的那个水塘去了，因为有很多地方可供它选择。"
"So one night, when everything was still and silent, and even the chattering parrots were asleep on one leg, the monkey stole down softly from his perch, and washed off the honey and the leaves, and came out from his bath in his own proper skin.","一天晚上，万籁俱寂，就连唠唠叨叨的鹦鹉都立着一条腿睡着了。于是，猴子轻手轻脚地从栖息的树干上下来，洗掉蜂蜜和树叶，恢复了自己本身的样子。"
"On his way to breakfast he met a rabbit, and stopped for a little talk.","去吃早餐的路上，猴子遇见一只兔子，于是停下来和兔子搭讪。"
"‘I am feeling rather dull,’ he remarked; ‘I think it would do me good to hunt a while.","“我觉得相当闷，”猴子说，“我觉得去打会儿猎应该会好点儿。"
"What do you say?’","你怎么说？”"
"‘Oh, I am quite willing,’ answered the rabbit, proud of being spoken to by such a large creature.","“哦，我很愿意。”兔子回答说，有这么一个大家伙跟它说话，它感到很自豪，"
"‘But the question is, what shall we hunt?’","“但问题是，我们应该捕什么呢？”"
"‘There is no credit in going after an elephant or a tiger,’ replied the monkey stroking his chin, ‘they are so big they could not possibly get out of your way.","“追赶一头大象或是一只老虎没什么好称道的，”猴子摸着下巴答道，“它们体积庞大，不太可能跑得过你。"
"It shows much more skill to be able to catch a small thing that can hide itself in a moment behind a leaf.","能抓到一个可以瞬间躲在一片叶子背后的小东西，才是本事。"
"I’ll tell you what!","我来告诉你吧！"
"Suppose I hunt butterflies, and you, serpents.’","不如这样，我抓蝴蝶，你来捕蛇。”"
"The rabbit, who was young and without experience, was delighted with this idea, and they both set out on their various ways.","兔子年轻，也没有经验，所以对这个想法感到很高兴。于是双方以各自的方式开始行动了。"
"The monkey quietly climbed up the nearest tree, and ate fruit most of the day, but the rabbit tired himself to death poking his nose into every heap of dried leaves he saw, hoping to find a serpent among them.","猴子悄悄爬到最近的一棵树上，吃了将近一天的水果，而兔子则让自己命悬一线，它用鼻子去戳看到的每一个枯叶堆，希望从里面找出一条蛇来。"
"Luckily for himself the serpents were all away for the afternoon, at a meeting of their own, for there is nothing a serpent likes so well for dinner as a nice plump rabbit.","所幸的是，下午的时候，蛇都出去参加各自的聚会去了。要知道，蛇可是最喜欢用一只美味的胖嘟嘟的兔子做晚餐了。"
"But, as it was, the dried leaves were all empty, and the rabbit at last fell asleep where he was.","可是实际情况是，所有枯草堆都是空的，最后兔子在原来的地方睡着了。"
"Then the monkey, who had been watching him, fell down and pulled his ears, to the rage of the rabbit, who vowed vengeance.","猴子一直观察着兔子，于是跳下来，拉着兔子的耳朵。兔子大怒，发誓要报仇。"
"It was not easy to catch the monkey off his guard, and the rabbit waited long before an opportunity arrived.","要想让猴子疏于防范，然后抓到它，这并不容易，兔子等了很久都没机会。"
"But one day Jack-in-the-Green was sitting on a stone, wondering what he should do next, when the rabbit crept softly behind him, and gave his tail a sharp pull.","但是有一天，绿衣杰克正坐在一块石头上想着接下来该做什么，兔子蹑手蹑脚地来到它身后，使劲地扯了一下它的尾巴。"
"The monkey gave a shriek of pain, and darted up into a tree, but when he saw that it was only the rabbit who had dared to insult him so, he chattered so fast in his anger, and looked so fierce, that the rabbit fled into the nearest hole, and stayed there for several days, trembling with fright.","猴子痛苦地尖叫一声，猛地向上冲进一棵树里，但是当它看到胆敢如此侮辱自己的仅仅是那只兔子的时候，气得大骂一通，看上去十分凶猛。兔子见状，便逃进最近的洞里呆了好几天，吓得直发抖。"
"Soon after this adventure the monkey went away into another part of the country, right on the outskirts of the forest, where there was a beautiful garden full of oranges hanging ripe from the trees.","这次事件过后不久，猴子就离开原来的地方，来到了这个国家的另一部分，就在森林的郊区。那里有一个美丽的花园，里面满是成熟的橘子，一个个挂在树上。"
"This garden was a favourite place for birds of all kinds, each hoping to secure an orange for dinner, and in order to frighten the birds away and keep a little fruit for himself, the master had fastened a waxen figure on one of the boughs.","这个花园是所有小鸟最喜欢的地方，每只鸟都希望弄到一个橘子当作晚餐。为了吓走鸟，给自己留些水果，主人在一根大树枝上固定了一个蜡像。"
"Now the monkey was as fond of oranges as any of the birds, and when he saw a man standing in the tree where the largest and sweetest oranges grew, he spoke to him at once.","猴子也像所有小鸟一样很喜欢吃橘子。它看到一个男人站在树上，而那里的橘子最大最甜，于是立马跟男人说起话来。"
"‘You man,’ he said rudely, ‘throw me down that big orange up there, or I will throw a stone at you.’","“就是你，伙计，”猴子粗鲁地说道，“把上面那个大橘子扔下来给我，不然我就扔一块石头砸你了。”"
"The wax figure took no notice of this request, so the monkey, who was easily made angry, picked up a stone, and flung it with all his force.","蜡像对猴子的要求无动于衷。于是，十分易怒的猴子捡起一块石头，用尽全力砸过去。"
"But instead of falling to the ground again, the stone stuck to the soft wax.","石头没有落回到地面，反而粘在了柔软的蜡像上。"
"At this moment a breeze shook the tree, and the orange on which the monkey had set his heart dropped from the bough.","这时，微风吹过，树摇动起来，猴子心里渴求的那个橘子从大树枝上掉了下来。"
"He picked it up and ate it every bit, including the rind, and it was so good he thought he should like another.","猴子捡起橘子，一点儿一点儿地连皮都吃掉了。橘子实在好吃，猴子认为它应该再要一个。"
"So he called again to the wax figure to throw him an orange, and as the figure did not move, he hurled another stone, which stuck to the wax as the first had done.","于是，猴子又一次叫蜡像扔个橘子给它。蜡像没动，猴子就又砸了一块石头过去，石头像第一次那样粘在了蜡像上。"
"Seeing that the man was quite indifferent to stones, the monkey grew more angry still, and climbing the tree hastily, gave the figure a violent kick.","见男人对石头无甚反应，猴子更生气了，它迅速爬上树，狠狠地踢了蜡像一下。"
"But like the two stones his leg remained stuck to the wax, and he was held fast.","但是就像那两块石头一样，猴子的腿粘在了蜡像上，并且粘得很紧。"
"‘Let me go at once, or I will give you another kick,’ he cried, suiting the action to the word, and this time also his foot remained in the grasp of the man.","“马上放我走，不然我会再踢你一脚。”猴子一边叫着，脚就踢了上去。这一次，它的这只脚也被男人控制住了。"
"Not knowing what he did, the monkey hit out, first with one hand and then with the other, and when he found that he was literally bound hand and foot, he became so mad with anger and terror that in his struggles he fell to the ground, dragging the figure after him.","猴子不知道男人做了什么，一拳挥过去，首先是一只手，接着是另外一只。当发现自己手脚逐一被缚，猴子又气又怕，挣扎中，它拖着蜡像一起掉到地上。"
"This freed his hands and feet, but besides the shock of the fall, they had tumbled into a bed of thorns, and he limped away broken and bruised, and groaning loudly; for when monkeys ARE hurt, they take pains that everybody shall know it.","猴子的手和脚都解脱了，但是摔下来的时候非常惊恐，还和蜡像一起滚进了荆棘丛中。猴子一拐一拐地走开，遍体鳞伤，鼻青脸肿，大声抱怨着。要知道，猴子们一旦受伤，就会费尽苦心弄得人尽皆知。"
"It was a long time before Jack was well enough to go about again; but when he did, he had an encounter with his old enemy the puma.","杰克休养了很长时间，才可以再次到处走动。可是它出去走动的时候，遇上了它的死对头美洲狮。"
"And this was how it came about.","事情是这样的。"
"One day the puma invited his friend the stag to go with him and see a comrade, who was famous for the good milk he got from his cows.","一天，美洲狮邀请朋友牡鹿和它一起去看望一个伙伴。那个伙伴从他的奶牛那里得到了上好的牛奶，并因此出名。"
"The stag loved milk, and gladly accepted the invitation, and when the sun began to get a little low the two started on their walk.","牡鹿喜欢喝牛奶，于是高兴地接受了邀请。刚过晌午，美洲狮和牡鹿就出发了。"
"On the way they arrived on the banks of a river, and as there were no bridges in those days it was necessary to swim across it.","途中，它们来到一条河流边上。那个时候还没有桥，所以它们得游过去。"
"The stag was not fond of swimming, and began to say that he was tired, and thought that after all it was not worth going so far to get milk, and that he would return home.","牡鹿不喜欢游泳，就说自己很累了，想着毕竟跑那么远去喝牛奶不划算，不如回家算了。"
"But the puma easily saw through these excuses, and laughed at him.","但是美洲狮轻易就看穿了这些借口，嘲笑起牡鹿来。"
"‘The river is not deep at all,’ he said; ‘why, you will never be off your feet.","“这条河一点儿也不深，”美洲狮说，“嗨，连你的脚都不会没过。"
"Come, pluck up your courage and follow me.’","来吧，鼓起你的勇气，跟着我。”"
"The stag was afraid of the river; still, he was much more afraid of being laughed at, and he plunged in after the puma; but in an instant the current had swept him away, and if it had not borne him by accident to a shallow place on the opposite side, where he managed to scramble up the bank, he would certainly have been drowned.","牡鹿怕河水，更怕被嘲笑，于是跟着美洲狮跳进河里，可是没过多久就被涌流卷走了。要不是它偶然被卷到对岸的一个浅水处，并得以爬上岸，它肯定已经被淹死了。"
"As it was, he scrambled out, shaking with terror, and found the puma waiting for him.","牡鹿爬上岸，浑身战栗，发现美洲狮正等着它。"
"‘You had a narrow escape that time,’ said the puma.","“你刚才真是死里逃生。”美洲狮说。"
"After resting for a few minutes, to let the stag recover from his fright, they went on their way till they came to a grove of bananas.","休息了几分钟，牡鹿从惊吓中恢复过来了。于是它们继续前进，直到看到满园的香蕉。"
"‘They look very good,’ observed the puma with a longing glance, ‘and I am sure you must be hungry, friend stag?","“它们看上去很好吃，”美洲狮憧憬地说道，“我知道你一定饿了，牡鹿朋友？"
"Suppose you were to climb the tree and get some.","不如你爬上树，摘一些下来。"
"You shall eat the green ones, they are the best and sweetest; and you can throw the yellow ones down to me.","你吃青的，青的是最好的，并且最甜，然后你可以把黄的扔下来给我。"
"I dare say they will do quite well!’","我敢说，这样的分配肯定相当不错！”"
"The stag did as he was bid, though, not being used to climbing, it gave him a deal of trouble and sore knees, and besides, his horns were continually getting entangled in the creepers.","虽然不习惯爬树，牡鹿还是照做了。这给它带来了很多麻烦，除了膝盖磕得作痛，它的鹿角还不断地被匍匐植物缠住。"
"What was worse, when once he had tasted the bananas, he found them not at all to his liking, so he threw them all down, green and yellow alike, and let the puma take his choice.","更糟糕的是，当它吃到香蕉时，发现自己一点儿也不喜欢，于是不管青的黄的全部扔了下去，让美洲狮自己随便挑。"
"And what a dinner he made!","美洲狮吃了一顿多么丰盛的晚餐啊！"
"When he had QUITE done, they set forth once more.","等到美洲狮吃得很饱了，它们又向前走去。"
"The path lay through a field of maize, where several men were working.","小路引向一片玉米地，地里有一些男人正在劳作。"
"As they came up to them, the puma whispered: ‘Go on in front, friend stag, and just say “Bad luck to all workers!”’ The stag obeyed, but the men were hot and tired, and did not think this a good joke.","它们走近男人们的时候，美洲狮低声说道：“牡鹿朋友，你走在前面，然后说：‘祝所有劳动者霉运连连！’”牡鹿照着说了，但是男人们又热又累，觉得这个玩笑一点儿也不好笑。"
"So they set their dogs at him, and he was obliged to run away as fast as he could.","于是他们放狗咬牡鹿，牡鹿不得不拼尽全力拔腿就跑。"
"‘I hope your industry will be rewarded as it deserves,’ said the puma as he passed along; and the men were pleased, and offered him some of their maize to eat.","“希望你们的勤劳能得到应有的回报。”美洲狮经过的时候说道。男人们很高兴，给了它一些玉米吃。"
"By-and-by the puma saw a small snake with a beautiful shining skin, lying coiled up at the foot of a tree.","走着走着，美洲狮看见一条皮肤光亮美丽的小蛇，它正盘旋着躺在一棵树底下。"
"‘What a lovely bracelet that would make for your daughter, friend stag! said he.","“多么漂亮的手镯啊，应该会适合你女儿，牡鹿朋友！”美洲狮说。"
"The stag stooped and picked up the snake, which bit him, and he turned angrily to the puma.","牡鹿停下来，捡起蛇，却被蛇咬了一口。于是，牡鹿生气地转向美洲狮。"
"‘Why did you not tell me it would bite?’ he asked.","“你为什么不告诉我它会咬人？”牡鹿质问道。"
"‘Is it my fault if you are an idiot?’ replied the puma.","“你是个傻子，这难道也是我的错？”美洲狮回答说。"
"At last they reached their journey’s end, but by this time it was late, and the puma’s comrade was ready for bed, so they slung their hammocks in convenient places, and went to sleep.","旅程终于结束了，但是天已经晚了，美洲狮的伙伴也该睡觉了。于是，它们把吊床吊在舒适的地方，就睡了。"
"But in the middle of the night the puma rose softly and stole out of the door to the sheep-fold, where he killed and ate the fattest sheep he could find, and taking a bowl full of its blood, he sprinkled the sleeping stag with it.","但是美洲狮半夜悄悄爬起来，偷偷溜出门，来到羊栏，找了一只最肥的羊杀掉吃了，并且弄了一满碗羊血撒在熟睡的牡鹿身上。"
"This done, he returned to bed.","做完这些，美洲狮就回到床上去了。"
"In the morning the shepherd went as usual to let the sheep out of the fold, and found one of them missing.","早上，牧羊人像往常一样来放羊出栏，发现少了一只。"
"He thought directly of the puma, and ran to accuse him of having eaten the sheep.","他马上想到是美洲狮吃了羊，跑去找美洲狮理论。"
"‘I, my good man?","“我的好伙计，你说是我？"
"What had put it into your head to think of such a thing?","你脑子里都装了些什么，竟然会这么想？"
"Have I got any blood about me?","我身上有血吗？"
"If anyone has eaten a sheep it must be my friend the stag.’","如果说有人吃了羊，那一定是我的朋友牡鹿。”"
" Then the shepherd went to examine the sleeping stag, and of course he saw the blood.","牧羊人于是去检查熟睡着的牡鹿，当然就看到了血。"
"‘Ah!","“啊！"
"I will teach you how to steal!’ cried he, and he hit the stag such a blow on his skull that he died in a moment.","我要教训你这个小偷！”牧羊人叫道，一拳打在牡鹿的头盖骨上，牡鹿一下子就死了。"
"The noise awakened the comrade above, and he came downstairs.","响声弄醒了楼上美洲狮的伙伴，他走下楼来。"
"The puma greeted him with joy, and begged he might have some of the famous milk as soon as possible, for he was very thirsty.","美洲狮高兴地迎接了他，并且恳求他是否可以尽快把那出了名的牛奶给自己喝，因为美洲狮实在太渴了。"
"A large bucket was set before the puma directly.","很快，一只大桶就放在了美洲狮面前。"
"He drank it to the last drop, and then took leave.","美洲狮喝到一滴不剩，然后离开了。"
"On his way home he met the monkey.","回去的路上，美洲狮碰到了猴子。"
"‘Are you fond of milk?’ asked he.","“你喜欢喝牛奶吗？”美洲狮问道，"
"‘I know a place where you get it very nice.","“我知道有个地方可以让你喝到美味的牛奶。"
"I will show you it if you like.’","如果你喜欢的话，我就带你去。”"
"The monkey knew that the puma was not so good-natured for nothing, but he felt quite able to take care of himself, so he said he should have much pleasure in accompanying his friend.","猴子知道美洲狮不会无缘无故这么好心，但又觉得自己有能力照顾好自己，所以说它很乐意陪朋友一起去。"
"They soon reached the same river, and, as before, the puma remarked: ‘Friend monkey, you will find it very shallow; there is no cause for fear.","很快，它们就来到先前的那条河边。美洲狮说：“猴子朋友，河很浅，你不用害怕。"
"Jump in and I will follow.’","跳进去吧，我会跟着你的。”"
"‘Do you think you have the stag to deal with?’ asked the monkey, laughing.","“你觉得你是在和牡鹿打交道吗？”猴子笑着问道，"
"‘I should prefer to follow; if not I shall go no further.","“我更喜欢跟着你，不这样的话我就不走了。”"
"The puma understood that it was useless trying to make the monkey do as he wished, so he chose a shallow place and began to swim across.","美洲狮明白，再怎么试图让猴子按照自己的意愿行事，也是无用的，所以选了一个浅水处开始游过去。"
"The monkey waited till the puma had got to the middle, then he gave a great spring and jumped on his back, knowing quite well that the puma would be afraid to shake him off, lest he should be swept away into deep water.","猴子等美洲狮游到了河中央，一跃而起，跳到美洲狮背上。猴子非常清楚，美洲狮一定怕把它晃下来，以免自己被卷到深水区去。"
"So in this manner they reached the bank.","就这样，它们游到了对岸。"
"The banana grove was not far distant, and here the puma thought he would pay the monkey out for forcing him to carry him over the river.","香蕉园就在不远处。猴子迫使美洲狮驮它过河，美洲狮觉得是时候要让猴子一报还一报了。"
"‘Friend monkey, look what fine bananas,’ cried he.","“猴子朋友，瞧，多好的香蕉啊。”美洲狮大声说，"
"‘You are fond of climbing; suppose you run up and throw me down a few.","“你喜欢爬树，不如你爬上去，然后扔一些给我。"
"You can eat the green ones, which are the nicest, and I will be content with the yellow.’","你可以吃那些青的，那是最好的，而我能吃些黄的就心满意足了。”"
"‘Very well,’ answered the monkey, swinging himself up; but he ate all the yellow ones himself, and only threw down the green ones that were left.","“很好。”猴子说着一跃而起。然而，猴子自己吃了所有的黄香蕉，只把剩下的青香蕉扔了下来。"
"The puma was furious and cried out: ‘I will punch your head for that.’","美洲狮生气地大叫道：“我要为此敲破你的头。”"
" But the monkey only answered: ‘If you are gong to talk such nonsense I won’t walk with you.’","可是猴子仅仅回了一句：“你要再说这些没用的，我就不跟你走了。”"
"And the puma was silent.","于是美洲狮不作声了。"
"In a few minutes more they arrived at the field where the men were reaping the maize, and the puma remarked as he had done before: ‘Friend monkey, if you wish to please these men, just say as you go by: “Bad luck to all workers.”","又过了几分钟，它们来到那片玉米地，男人们正在地里收割玉米。美洲狮像先前那样说道：“猴子朋友，如果你想让这些人高兴，走过去的时候，你就说：‘祝所有劳动者霉运连连。’”"
"‘Very well,’ replied the monkey; but, instead, he nodded and smiled, and said: ‘I hope your industry may be rewarded as it deserves.’","“行。”猴子回答说。但是猴子并没这样做，而是点点头，笑了笑，说道：“希望你们的勤劳能得到应有的回报。”"
"The men thanked him heartily, let him pass on, and the puma followed behind him.","男人们衷心向它表示感谢，让它过去了，而美洲狮就跟在它后面。"
"Further along the path they saw the shining snake lying on the moss.","它们沿着小路又走了一阵子，看到那条光亮美丽的蛇躺在苔藓上。"
"‘What a lovely necklace for your daughter,’ exclaimed the puma.","“多么漂亮的一条项链啊，以后可以送给你女儿。”美洲狮说，"
"‘Pick it up and take it with you.’","“捡起来带在身边吧。”"
"‘You are very kind, but I will leave it for you,’ answered the monkey, and nothing more was said about the snake.","“你心地真好，但是我想把它留给你。”猴子回答道。于是，有关蛇的话题就此告一段落。"
"Not long after this they reached the comrade’s house, and found him just ready to go to bed.","不久，它们来到了美洲狮伙伴的家，却发现他刚准备好睡觉。"
"So, without stopping to talk, the guests slung their hammocks, the monkey taking care to place his so high that no one could get at him.","因此，客人们没有停下来交谈，而是吊起吊床。猴子很小心，把床吊在别人都够不到的地方。"
"Besides, he thought it would be more prudent not to fall asleep, so he only lay still and snored loudly.","此外，猴子觉得应该更谨慎一点儿，不能睡着，所以它只是静静地躺着，大声地打着呼噜。"
"When it was quite dark and no sound was to be heard, the puma crept out to the sheep-fold, killed the sheep, and carried back a bowl full of its blood with which to sprinkle the monkey.","天很黑了，听不到任何声音。美洲狮偷偷溜出去，来到羊栏，杀了羊，然后带回一满碗羊血，打算洒在猴子身上。"
"But the monkey, who had been watching out of the corner of his eye, waited until the puma drew near, and with a violent kick upset the bowl all over the puma himself.","但是猴子一直用眼睛的余光观察着。等到美洲狮靠近的时候，它猛地一踢，把碗打翻在美洲狮身上。"
"When the puma saw what had happened, he turned in a great hurry to leave the house, but before he could do so, he saw the shepherd coming, and hastily lay down again.","美洲狮见状，急忙转身想要离开，但它还没来得及走，就看到牧羊人来了，于是又慌忙躺下来。"
"‘This is the second time I have lost a sheep,’ the man said to the monkey; ‘it will be the worse for the thief when I catch him, I can tell you.’","“我又少了一只羊，这是第二次了。”男人对猴子说道，“我可以告诉你，要是抓到那个贼，他的下场会更惨。”"
"The monkey did not answer, but silently pointed to the puma who was pretending to be asleep.","猴子没有回答，而是默默地指了指正在假装睡觉的美洲狮。"
"The shepherd stooped and saw the blood, and cried out: ‘Ah! so it is you, is it? then take that!’ and with his stick he gave the puma such a blow on the head that he died then and there.","牧羊人弯下腰，看到血，然后大叫道：“啊！所以是你干的，对吗？那就受罚吧！”牧羊人抡起棍子，朝美洲狮头上猛击一下，美洲狮当时就死了。"
"Then the monkey got up and went to the dairy, and drank all the milk he could find.","然后，猴子下了床，到了制酪厂，喝了所有能够找到的牛奶。"
"Afterwards he returned home and married, and that is the last we heard of him.","之后，猴子就回家成亲了，那也是我们最后一次听到有关它的消息。"

