"书名狐狸与拉普人（安德鲁·朗格经典棕色童话）短简介弱小的狐狸怎能巧妙玩弄一个拉普人？它如何诱骗黑熊去钓鱼？而黑熊又为何要追捕它？可怜的黑熊最后化为一堆骨头，原因何在？狐狸以什么理由骗走了拉普人三只驯鹿，又怎么会弄瞎自己的双眼？最后它又用什么谎言欺骗蛇把眼睛给了自己？本故事讲述了一只狐狸花言巧语欺骗众多受害者，充分体现出狡猾这一经典特征。长简介一只狐狸偷偷上了一个拉普人的车，破坏雪橇偷走了鱼。它骗黑熊到溪边钓鱼，却招来祸端。狐狸逃跑未遂，被熊发现。熊又听信了狐狸的话，恳求它为自己化妆。狐狸让熊听命于自己，最后把熊烧死了。它用熊骨头换了拉普人三只驯鹿。拉普人意识到上当了便去追赶狐狸，岂料屡遭戏弄，只能放弃。狐狸召集众动物帮忙杀鹿，却在大家杀完后大声呼喊吓跑了动物们。它刚要烤肉时，拉普人追来了。狐狸又骗他说是老鼠和白鼬杀死了驯鹿。它自己却趁机逃到了河边。它又号召鱼儿们渡它过河，挑来拣去选中了大马哈鱼。岂料它一上岸就把鱼扔到了锅里煮，可不小心被开水烫瞎了眼睛。它四处求助，最后一条蛇上了它的当，把眼睛借给了它。而狐狸却再也没有回去。关键字狐狸；拉普人；童话；安德鲁·朗格；外研社编译组；雪橇；鱼；黑熊；追捕；鸟儿；化妆；骨头；交换；驯鹿；动物；杀鹿；嫁祸；渡河；开水；眼睛；松鸡；蜜蜂；借眼睛；蛇；逃离作者（英）安德鲁·朗格作者简介安德鲁•朗格(1844—1912)，英国著名的文学家、历史学家、诗人、民俗学家，以研究神话、民间传说闻名于世，由他编纂并分别以十二种颜色命名的“童话故事集”自1889年问世以来，历久不衰，备受世界各国儿童们的喜爱。书评“如果孩子们的世界里没有那神奇美丽的童话，他们的生活将不可想象；如果这座童话乐园里没有安德鲁•朗格所编写的童话，他们的童心就得不到完美的塑造。”语言质朴，通俗易懂，形象鲜明，给人以启迪。"
"The Fox and the Lapp","狐狸和拉普人"
"by Andrew Lang","作者：安德鲁·朗格"
"Once upon a time a fox lay peeping out of his hole, watching the road that ran by at a little distance, and hoping to see something that might amuse him, for he was feeling very dull and rather cross.","从前，有一只狐狸偷偷躲在洞里，觉得非常无聊，甚至有些暴躁。它盯着不远处的路，盼着能看到一些开心有趣的事。"
"For a long while he watched in vain; everything seemed asleep, and not even a bird stirred overhead.","它观望了很久，却什么也没看到；好像一切都在沉睡，头顶上连一声鸟叫都没有。"
"The fox grew crosser than ever, and he was just turning away in disgust from his place when he heard the sound of feet coming over the snow.","狐狸感到前所未有的烦躁，它厌恶地正想要避开这个地方。这时，雪地里突然传来了脚步声。"
"He crouched eagerly down at the edge of the road and said to himself: ‘I wonder what would happen if I were to pretend to be dead!","它急忙蹲在路边，自言自语：“要是我装死的话，不知道会有什么事情发生呢？"
"This is a man driving a reindeer sledge, I know the tinkling of the harness.","这是一个驾着驯鹿雪橇的拉普人，我听得出马具叮叮当当的声音。"
"And at any rate I shall have an adventure, and that is always something!’","好歹我也要冒一次险，总会有所收获的！”"
"So he stretched himself out by the side of the road, carefully choosing a spot where the driver could not help seeing him, yet where the reindeer would not tread on him; and all fell out just as he had expected.","于是，它仔细选了一个地方，伸直身体躺在路边。在那里，拉普人一眼就能看到它，而且驯鹿也不会踩到它。一切都如同它所料的那样发生了。"
"The sledge-driver pulled up sharply, as his eyes lighted on the beautiful animal lying stiffly beside him, and jumping out he threw the fox into the bottom of the sledge, where the goods he was carrying were bound tightly together by ropes.","驾雪橇的拉普人一眼就瞥见旁边一动不动地躺着一只美丽的狐狸，他迅速地勒住缰绳，跳下来，把狐狸扔进了雪橇斗，车斗里的货物用绳子紧紧绑着。"
"The fox did not move a muscle though his bones were sore from the fall, and the driver got back to his seat again and drove on merrily.","狐狸被摔得骨头发麻，却丝毫没有动弹。拉普人又重新回到座位，开开心心地向前赶路。"
"But before they had gone very far, the fox, who was near the edge, contrived to slip over, and when the Laplander saw him stretched out on the snow he pulled up his reindeer and put the fox into one of the other sledges that was fastened behind, for it was market-day at the nearest town, and the man had much to sell.","但还没走多远，狐狸便试图慢慢滑到车斗边缘。拉普人看到狐狸耷拉在雪地上，就勒住驯鹿的缰绳，把狐狸扔进了后面的一辆雪橇。今天拉普人要到附近的集市上去卖货，他有很多要卖的。"
"They drove on a little further, when some noise in the forest made the man turn his head, just in time to see the fox fall with a heavy thump on to the frozen snow.","走了一段路，这时树林里传来一阵声响。拉普人转过头，正好看到狐狸砰的一声重重地摔在结冰的雪地上。"
"‘That beast is bewitched!’ he said to himself, and then he threw the fox into the last sledge of all, which had a cargo of fishes.","“这家伙真是中邪了！”他自言自语。接着，他把狐狸扔到了最后一辆雪橇上，那里面有满满一车的鱼。"
"This was exactly what the cunning creature wanted, and he wriggled gently to the front and bit the cord which tied the sledge to the one before it so that it remained standing in the middle of the road.","这正是狡猾的狐狸想要的。它慢慢地扭动着身体，挪到前面，咬断了系在前后雪橇间的绳索。这样一来，最后一辆雪橇就落在了路中央。"
"Now there were so many sledges that the Lapp did not notice for a long while that one was missing; indeed, he would have entered the town without knowing if snow had not suddenly begun to fall.","由于有很多雪橇，拉普人很长时间都没有注意到丢了一辆；实际上，要不是突然下起了雪，他还会毫不知情地一路走到镇里。"
"Then he got down to secure more firmly the cloths that kept his goods dry, and going to the end of the long row, discovered that the sledge containing the fish and the fox was missing.","他走下来一辆一辆地检查雪橇，确保布把货物盖严了，却发现最后一辆装鱼的雪橇不见了，狐狸也没了踪影。"
"He quickly unharnessed one of his reindeer and rode back along the way he had come, to find the sledge standing safe in the middle of the road; but as the fox had bitten off the cord close to the noose there was no means of moving it away.","他立刻解下缰绳，骑上一只驯鹿按原路返回找，终于发现雪橇安然无恙地立在路中间。但由于狐狸已经咬断了牵引绳，所以根本没办法把雪橇拖走。"
"The fox meanwhile was enjoying himself mightily.","狐狸这时候却在美美地享受着。"
"As soon as he had loosened the sledge, he had taken his favourite fish from among the piles neatly arranged for sale, and had trotted off to the forest with it in his mouth.","它松开雪橇时就已经从那堆放得整整齐齐的待卖鱼当中选了自己最喜欢的一条。它嘴里叼着鱼，小跑着进了森林。"
"By-and-by he met a bear, who stopped and said: ‘Where did you find that fish, Mr. Fox?’","不一会儿，它碰到了一只熊。熊停下来问：“狐狸先生，你从哪儿抓到那条鱼的？”"
"‘Oh, not far off,’ answered he; ‘I just stuck my tail in the stream close by the place where the elves dwell, and the fish hung on to it of itself.’","“噢，不远。”狐狸回答，“附近有一条小溪流，就在小精灵住处的旁边。我把尾巴伸进水里，鱼就咬住尾巴自己上来了。”"
"‘Dear me,’ snarled the bear, who was hungry and not in a good temper, ‘if the fish hung on to your tail, I suppose he will hang on to mine.’","熊饥肠辘辘，脾气也不好，它吼道：“见鬼！要是鱼能咬住你的尾巴，我想应该也能咬住我的。”"
"‘Yes, certainly, grandfather,’ replied the fox, ‘if you have patience to suffer what I suffered.’","“对啊，老祖宗，肯定能，”狐狸回答，“如果您有耐心，肯像我一样吃苦遭罪的话，就一定能。”"
"‘Of course I can,’ replied the bear, ‘what nonsense you talk!","“我当然能了，”熊回答，“不要再说废话了！"
"Show me the way.’","给我带路。”"
"So the fox led him to the bank of a stream, which, being in a warm place, had only lightly frozen in places, and was at this moment glittering in the spring sunshine.","狐狸就把熊带到暖和的小溪边。水面只有一部分结了一层薄薄的冰，在春天温暖的阳光下闪闪发亮。"
"‘The elves bathe here,’ he said, ‘and if you put in your tail the fish will catch hold of it.","“小精灵就在这儿洗澡，”狐狸说，“你把尾巴伸进去，鱼就会自己抓住它的。"
"But it is no use being in a hurry, or you will spoil everything.’","但着急没有用，不然一切都会被你搞砸的。”"
"Then he trotted off, but only went out of sight of the bear, who stood still on the bank with his tail deep in the water.","然后它就一跑一跳地离开了，但只是躲开了熊的视线；熊把尾巴深深浸到水里，一动不动地站在湖边。"
"Soon the sun set and it grew very cold and the ice formed rapidly, and the bear’s tail was fixed as tight as if a vice had held it; and when the fox saw that everything had happened just as he had planned it, he called out loudly:","很快，太阳落山了，天越来越冷，湖面迅速结了冰。熊的尾巴好像被老虎钳夹到一样，紧紧冻在了湖面上。狐狸看到自己的阴谋得逞，便大叫道："
"‘Be quick, good people, and come with your bows and spears.","“大家快来啊，带上你们的弓和矛。"
"A bear has been fishing in your brook!’","有一只熊一直在你们的小溪里偷鱼呢！”"
"And in a moment the whole place was full of little creatures each one with a tiny bow and a spear hardly big enough for a baby; but both arrows and spears could sting, as the bear knew very well, and in his fright he gave such a tug to his tail that it broke short off, and he rolled away into the forest as fast as his legs could carry him.","一时之间，小溪边冲出无数矮小的精灵，每个小精灵都拿着小孩玩具一般大小的弓和矛。熊清楚地明白，这弓和矛虽小，但扎到身上照样很痛。惶恐之下，熊挣扎躲闪，竟拉断了尾巴，它使出吃奶的力气，连滚带爬地逃到了森林里。"
"At this sight the fox held his sides for laughing, and then scampered away in another direction.","看到这一幕，狐狸笑得前仰后合，接着就飞快地跑向另一边。"
"By-and-by he came to a fir tree, and crept into a hole under the root.","不一会儿，它来到了一棵冷杉树旁，蹑手蹑脚地爬进了树洞里。"
"After that he did something very strange.","之后，它做了一些非常奇怪的事情。"
"Taking one of his hind feet between his two front paws, he said softly:","狐狸把一只后脚的脚跟放在前面两个爪子中间，轻轻地说："
"‘What would you do, my foot, if someone was to betray me?’","“脚啊，要是有人要出卖我，你会怎么做呢？”"
"‘I would run so quickly that he should not catch you.’","“我会飞快地跑开，谁也抓不到你。”"
"‘What would you do, mine ear, if someone was to betray me?’","“耳朵啊，要是有人要出卖我，你会怎么做呢？”"
"‘I would listen so hard that I should hear all his plans.’","“我会四处去打听，知道他所有的阴谋。”"
"‘What would you do, my nose, if someone was to betray me?’","“鼻子啊，要是有人要出卖我，你会怎么做呢？”"
"‘I would smell so sharply that I should know from afar that he was coming.’","“我会灵敏地去嗅。敌人还在很远的地方时，我就能闻出来。”"
"‘What would you do, my tail, if someone was to betray me?’","“尾巴啊，要是有人要出卖我，你会怎么做呢？”"
"‘I would steer you so straight a course that you would soon be beyond his reach.","“我会帮你保持平衡，一路飞奔，很快逃离他的追捕。"
"Let us be off; I feel as if danger was near.’","我们走吧。我感觉危险好像逼近了。”"
"But the fox was comfortable where he was, and did not hurry himself to take his tail’s advice.","但是狐狸却舒适地呆在那里，没有急着接受尾巴的建议。"
"And before very long he found he was too late, for the bear had come round by another path, and guessing where his enemy was began to scratch at the roots of the tree.","没过多久，它就发现太晚了。因为熊循着气味，径直从另一条路上走来，它猜到狐狸要伸出爪子去扒开树洞。"
"The fox made himself as small as he could, but a scrap of his tail peeped out, and the bear seized it and held it tight.","狐狸紧紧缩成一团，但还是有一截尾巴露了出来。熊揪住它的尾尖紧紧抓着。"
"Then the fox dug his claws into the ground, but he was not strong enough to pull against the bear, and slowly he was dragged forth and his body flung over the bear’s neck.","狐狸用爪子在地上乱蹬，但它不够强壮，根本不是熊的对手。慢慢地，熊拽出狐狸，把它甩过自己的脖子，挂到肩上。"
"In this manner they set out down the road, the fox’s tail being always in the bear’s mouth.","就这样，它们上路了。熊一直用嘴叼着狐狸尾巴。"
"After they had gone some way, they passed a tree-stump, on which a bright coloured woodpecker was tapping.","走了一段路后，它们路过一个树桩，看到一只羽毛鲜艳的啄木鸟在树上轻轻敲打着啄食虫子。"
"‘Ah! those were better times when I used to paint all the birds such gay colours,’ sighed the fox.","“啊！想当年，我给所有的鸟都涂上这么漂亮的颜色，那是多么美好的时光啊！”狐狸感叹道。"
"‘What are you saying, old fellow?’ asked the bear.","“老伙计，你在说什么？”熊问。"
"‘I?","“我吗？"
"Oh, I was saying nothing,’ answered the fox drearily.","哦，我没说什么。”狐狸很忧郁地回答，"
"‘Just carry me to your cave and eat me up as quick as you can.’","“你就把我带到洞里，尽快吃了我吧。”"
"The bear was silent, and thought of his supper; and the two continued their journey till they reached another tree with a woodpecker tapping on it.","熊默不作声，想到了它的晚餐；它们两个继续走，直到看到了另一棵树上又有一只啄木鸟轻轻敲打着啄食虫子。"
"‘Ah! those were better times when I used to paint all the birds such gay colours,’ said the fox again to himself.","“啊！想当年，我给所有的鸟都涂上这么漂亮的颜色，那是多么美好的时光啊！”狐狸又自言自语。"
"‘Couldn’t you paint me too?’ asked the bear suddenly.","“你能不能也给我涂涂呢？”熊突然问。"
"But the fox shook his head; for he was always acting, even if no one was there to see him do it.","但是狐狸摇了摇头；因为它一直在演戏，即使没人看也来这一套。"
"‘You bear pain so badly,’ he replied, in a thoughtful voice, ‘and you are impatient besides, and could never put up with all that is necessary.","“你太怕疼了，”它若有所思地说，“而且你没有耐心，肯定也熬不过所有必经的程序。"
"Why, you would first have to dig a pit, and then twist ropes of willow, and drive in posts and fill the hole with pitch, and, last of all, set it on fire.","我为什么这么说呢？因为首先你必须要挖一个坑，然后用柳条搓一些绳子，钉好木桩，再往坑里灌满树脂，最后点着它。"
"Oh, no; you would never be able to do all that.’","哎，不行的，你永远做不到那些。”"
"‘It does not matter a straw how hard the work is,’ answered the bear eagerly, ‘I will do it every bit.’","“无论这项工作有多难，我都不在乎，”熊急切地回答，“我一小点一小点地做。”"
" And as he spoke he began tearing up the earth so fast that soon a deep pit was ready, deep enough to hold him.","它说着就开始迅速地刨坑。很快，一个大深坑挖成了，深到可以装下他自己。"
"‘That is all right,’ said the fox at last, ‘I see I was mistaken in you.","“很好，”最后狐狸说，“我知道我先前误解你了。"
"Now sit here, and I will bind you.’","现在，坐在这儿别动，我要绑住你。”"
" So the bear sat down on the edge of the pit, and the fox sprang on his back, which he crossed with the willow ropes, and then set fire to the pitch.","熊就坐在坑边，而狐狸就在它背上跳来跳去，用柳条绳把它绑得结结实实，接着就点燃了树脂。"
"It burnt up in an instant, and caught the bands of willow and the bear’s rough hair; but he did not stir, for he thought that the fox was rubbing the bright colours into his skin, and that he would soon be as beautiful as a whole meadow of flowers.","火迅速烧了起来，烧到了柳条绳，也燎光了乱糟糟的熊毛；但是熊纹丝不动，因为它以为狐狸正在为自己涂抹鲜艳的颜色，很快自己就能变得像草原的花朵一样美丽。"
"But when the fire grew hotter still he moved uneasily from one foot to the other, saying, imploringly: ‘It is getting rather warm, old man.’","可是火势越来越旺，熊不安地左右摇摆，于是它恳求道：“老弟，现在太热了。”"
" But all the answer he got was: ‘I thought you would never be able to suffer pain like those little birds.’","但是它听到的回答都是：“我就知道你不能忍受住疼，连那些小鸟都比不上。”"
"The bear did not like being told that he was not as brave as a bird, so he set his teeth and resolved to endure anything sooner than speak again; but by this time the last willow band had burned through, and with a push the fox sent his victim tumbling into the grass, and ran off to hide himself in the forest.","熊不愿意听到说自己不如小鸟勇敢，于是就不再说什么，而是咬紧牙关，痛下决心忍受住一切；但这时，最后一根柳条绳烧断了，狐狸顺势一推就把熊推倒在草丛里，自己却跑开藏到了森林里。"
"After a while he stole cautiously and found, as he expected, nothing left but a few charred bones.","不一会儿，它小心翼翼地偷偷出来，发现正如它所料，除了几根烧焦了的骨头，什么也没留下。"
"These he picked up and put in a bag, which he slung over his back.","它把这些捡起来放进一个袋子里，把袋子扛到背上。"
"By-and-by he met a Lapp driving his team of reindeer along the road, and as he drew near, the fox rattled the bones gaily.","不一会儿，它又遇到了一个拉普人,那人驾着一队驯鹿从路上走来。等那人走近了，狐狸就开心地把骨头抖得格格作响。"
"‘That sounds like silver or gold,’ thought the man to himself.","“听起来不是金子就是银子的声音。”拉普人心里想。"
"And he said politely to the fox:","他殷勤地对狐狸说："
"‘Good-day, friend!","“天气不错啊，朋友！"
"What have you got in your bag that makes such a strange sound?’","你袋子里有什么啊，发出那样奇怪的声音？”"
"‘All the wealth my father left me,’ answered the fox.","“我父亲留给我的所有财产，”狐狸回答，"
"‘Do you feel inclined to bargain?’","“你想不想跟我做个买卖？”"
"‘Well, I don’t mind,’ replied the Lapp, who was a prudent man, and did not wish the fox to think him too eager; ‘but show me first what money you have got.’","“嗯，我很乐意。”拉普人回答。他是一个很精明的人，他不希望狐狸看出自己太心急，接着又说：“但得先让我看看你有多少钱。”"
"‘Ah, but I can’t do that,’ answered the fox, ‘my bag is sealed up.","“哎，我可不能那么做，”狐狸回答说，“袋子封着口呢。"
"But if you will give me those three reindeer, you shall take it as it is, with all its contents.’","但是你如果肯用这三只驯鹿跟我交换，我就把整袋钱都给你。”"
"The Lapp did not quite like it, but the fox spoke with such an air that his doubts melted away.","拉普人不是很愿意这样，但是狐狸的口气让他的疑虑烟消云散。"
"He nodded, and stretched out his hand; the fox put the bag into it, and unharnassed the reindeer he had chosen.","他点点头，伸出手来；狐狸把袋子递到他手上，选中驯鹿，解下了缰绳。"
"‘Oh, I forgot!’ he exclaimed, turning round, as he was about to drive them in the opposite direction, ‘you must be sure not to open the bag until you have gone at least five miles, right on the other side of those hills out there.","“啊，我忘了！”狐狸刚要驾着驯鹿朝反方向驶去时，突然转过身来惊呼道，“你必须保证至少走出五英里再打开袋子，也就正好是翻过那边的小山后。"
"If you do, you will find that all the gold and silver has changed into a parcel of charred bones.’","要是你提前打开了，你会发现所有的金子银子都变成了一包烧焦了的骨头。”"
" Then he whipped up his reindeer, and was soon out of sight.","说完，它鞭打着驯鹿很快消失不见了。"
"For some time the Lapp was satisfied with hearing the bones rattle, and thinking to himself what a good bargain he had made, and of all the things he would buy with the money.","有那么一会儿，拉普人听到骨头格格作响很是得意，心里想自己做了这么好的一笔交易，这些钱可以买到所有的东西了。"
"But, after a bit, this amusement ceased to content him, and besides, what was the use of planning when you did not know for certain how rich you were?","但是过了一会儿，他醒悟过来，欢乐感也消失了。再说，还不知道自己到底有多少钱，盘算这些有什么用呢？"
"Perhaps there might be a great deal of silver and only a little gold in the bag; or a great deal of gold, and only a little silver.","或许袋子里银子多金子少；也或许金子多银子少。"
"Who could tell?","谁知道呢？"
"He would not, of course, take the money out to count it, for that might bring him bad luck.","他当然没有取出钱来数，因为那样也许会给自己带来霉运。"
"But there could be no harm in just one peep!","但是只瞥一眼应该没事吧！"
"So he slowly broke the seal, and untied the strings, and, behold, a heap of burnt bones lay before him!","于是他慢慢打开封口，解开绳子，却只看见一堆烧焦了的骨头躺在他面前！"
"In a minute he knew he had been tricked, and flinging the bag to the ground in a rage, he ran after the fox as fast as his snow-shoes would carry him.","他立即意识到自己被骗了，于是愤怒地将袋子扔到地上，撒腿拼命地去追狐狸。"
"Now the fox had guessed exactly what would happen, and was on the look out.","现在狐狸早已料到会发生什么，它不时地张望着。"
"Directly he saw the little speck coming towards him, he wished that the man’s snow-shoes might break, and that very instant the Lapp’s shoes snapped in two.","远处的人影渐渐走近，狐狸祈求那人的雪地鞋开裂。就在那一瞬间，拉普人的鞋子突然断成两截。"
"The Lapp did now know that this was the fox’s work, but he had to stop and fetch one of his other reindeer, which he mounted, and set off again in pursuit of his enemy.","拉普人知道这是狐狸捣的鬼，但他不得不停下，骑上另一只驯鹿又继续出发追赶他的敌人。"
"The fox soon heard him coming, and this time he wished that the reindeer might fall and break its leg.","狐狸马上听到他来了。这一次，它祈求驯鹿跌倒，让拉普人摔断腿。"
"And so it did; and the man felt it was a hopeless chase, and that he was no match for the fox.","狐狸的希望马上就实现了，这个人觉得再追下去也没有希望，他不是狐狸的对手。"
"So the fox drove on in peace till he reached the cave where all his stores were kept, and then he began to wonder whom he could get to help him kill his reindeer, for though he could steal reindeer he was too small to kill them.","狐狸赶着驯鹿若无其事地走到洞里。它所有的东西都储存在那里。接着它开始寻思让谁帮忙杀死驯鹿，虽然它可以偷来驯鹿，但自己身材太小了，杀不了它们。"
"‘After all, it will be quite easy,’ thought he, and he bade a squirrel, who was watching him on a tree close by, take a message to all the robber beasts of the forest, and in less than half an hour a great crashing of branches was heard, and bears, wolves, snakes, mice, frogs, and other creatures came pressing up to the cave.","“根本就很简单，小事一桩。”狐狸想着，忽然看到不远处的树上有一只松鼠正看着自己。于是，它招呼松鼠，叫它捎个口信给森林里所有的肉食动物。不到半小时，随着噼噼啪啪的树枝断裂声，熊、狼、蛇、鼠、蛙，还有其他动物都蜂拥而至。"
"When they heard why they had been summoned, they declared themselves ready each one to do his part.","听说自己被召唤过来的原因，它们都跃跃欲试了。"
"The bear took his crossbow from his neck and shot the reindeer in the chin; and, from that day to this, every reindeer has a mark in that same spot, which is always known as the bear’s arrow.","熊从脖子上放下爪子，冲着驯鹿下巴就是一掌；直到今天，驯鹿的下巴上还有疤痕，人们都说是熊的掌印。"
"The wolf shot him in the thigh, and the sign of his arrow still remains; and so with the mouse and the viper and all the rest, even the frog; and at the last the reindeer all died.","狼猛咬向驯鹿的大腿，伤疤至今还在；紧接着，老鼠、蝰蛇，还有其他所有的动物都蜂拥而上，连青蛙也来凑热闹；最后，驯鹿彻底死了。"
"And the fox did nothing, but looked on.","狐狸什么也没做，只是旁观。"
"‘I really must go down to the brook and wash myself,’ said he (though he was perfectly clean), and he went under the bank and hid himself behind a stone.","“我身上太脏了，得去河里洗洗。”它说（尽管它身上很干净）。说完就跑到小溪边，藏在一颗石头后面。"
"From there he set up the most frightful shrieks, so that the animals fled away in all directions.","它在那里发出撕心裂肺的喊叫，所有的动物都向四面八方仓皇而逃。"
"Only the mouse and the ermine remained where they were, for they thought that they were much too small to be noticed.","只有老鼠和白鼬还呆在原地，因为它们觉得自己目标小，不会被察觉。"
"The fox continued his shrieks till he felt sure that the animals must have got to a safe distance; then he crawled out of his hiding-place and went to the bodies of the reindeer, which he now had all to himself.","狐狸又尖叫了一会儿，确定动物们都跑远了,才从藏身的地方爬出来，走向放驯鹿的地方，想着现在独自占有它们。"
"He gathered a bundle of sticks for a fire, and was just preparing to cook a steak, when his enemy, the Lapp, came up, panting with haste and excitement.","它找来一捆树枝来生火，刚要准备做烤肉；这时候它的敌人——那个拉普人，急促又兴奋地喘着气冲了过来。"
"‘What are you doing there?’ cried he; ‘why did you palm off those bones on me?","“你在那儿干什么？”他大吼，“为什么拿那些骨头来骗我？"
"And why, when you had got the reindeer, did you kill them?’","为什么骗到我的驯鹿后还要杀死它们？”"
"‘Dear brother,’ answered the fox with a sob, ‘do not blame me for this misfortune.","“老兄，”狐狸抽泣着回答，“太不幸了，可这也不能怪我啊。"
"It is my comrades who have slain them in spite of my prayers.’","我百般恳求，可我的同伴还是杀死了它们。”"
"The man made no reply, for the white fur of the ermine, who was crouching with the mouse behind some stones, had just caught his eye.","这时，白鼬和老鼠正蜷缩在石头后面。拉普人一眼就瞥见了白鼬那雪白的皮毛，便二话不说。"
"He hastily seized the iron hook which hung over the fire and flung it at the little creature; but the ermine was too quick for him, and the hook only touched the top of its tail, and that has remained black to this day.","他飞快地抓起挂在火上的铁钩刺向这小生物；但白鼬太迅速了，钩子只碰到了它的尾巴尖。直到今天，那里还是黑乎乎的。"
"As for the mouse, the Lapp threw a half-burnt stick after him, and though it was not enough to hurt him, his beautiful white skin was smeared all over with it, and all the washing in the world would not make him clean again.","至于老鼠，拉普人抄起一根烧了一半的木棍向它甩去。尽管没受什么大的伤，但老鼠那漂亮的白色皮毛全被木炭弄脏了。世界上任何洗涤剂都洗不干净了。"
"And the man would have been wiser if he had let the ermine and the mouse alone, for when he turned round again he found he was alone.","拉普人真不明智，只知道拿白鼬和老鼠出气，他再次转过身来时，却发现只剩下自己了。"
"Directly the fox noticed that his enemy’s attention had wandered from himself he watched his chance, and stole softly away till he had reached a clump of thick bushes, when he ran as fast as he could, till he reached a river, where a man was mending his boat.","狐狸一察觉到它的敌人不再注意自己，就马上看好机会悄悄溜走了，钻进了一片浓密的矮树丛，一口气跑到了小河边。那里有一个渔夫在修理他的船。"
"‘Oh, I wish, I wish, I had a boat to mend too!’ he cried, sitting up on his hind-legs and looking into the man’s face.","“哎，我多想自己也能有条船来修修啊！”它蹲在地上大叫，直勾勾地看着渔夫的脸。"
"‘Stop your silly chatter!’ answered the man crossly, ‘or I will give you a bath in the river.’","“别再乱叫了！”渔夫生气地说，“要不然我就把你丢到河里洗澡去。”"
"‘Oh, I wish, I do wish, I had a boat to mend,’ cried the fox again, as if he had not heard.","“哎，我多么希望自己也能有条船来修修啊！”狐狸好像没有听到渔夫的话一样，又大叫了一声。"
"And the man grew angry and seized him by the tail, and threw him far out in the stream close to the edge of an island; which was just what the fox wanted.","渔夫愤怒了，抓住狐狸的尾巴奋力一甩，把它扔到了离水中的一座小岛不远的地方，这狐狸正是求之不得的。"
"He easily scrambled up, and sitting on the top, he called: ‘Hasten, hasten, O fishes, and carry me to the other side!’","它轻松地爬上小岛，坐在上面喊：“哦，鱼儿们啊，赶快赶快，把我带回另一边吧！”"
" And the fishes left the stones where they had been sleeping, and the pools where they had been feeding, and hurried to see who could get to the island first.","鱼儿们就纷纷从石头边和水塘里钻出来，顾不得睡觉和觅食，争先恐后地游向小岛。"
"‘I have won,’ shouted the pike.","“我赢了，”梭鱼大叫道，"
"‘Jump on my back, dear fox, and you will find yourself in a trice on the opposite shore.’","“跳到我背上来，亲爱的狐狸，你瞬间就能到达对岸。”"
"‘No, thank you,’ answered the fox, ‘your back is much too weak for me.","“不用了，谢谢你，”狐狸回答，“要载我的话，你的背太不结实了。"
"I should break it.’","我不弄伤它才怪呢。”"
"‘Try mine,’ said the eel, who had wriggled to the front.","“看我行吗？”鳗鱼边说边扭到了前面。"
"‘No, thank you,’ replied the fox again, ‘I should slip over your head and be drowned.’","“不用了，谢谢，”狐狸再次回答，“你的背太滑了，我非从你头上滑下去淹死不可。”"
"‘You won’t slip on MY back,’ said the perch, coming forward.","“你上来吧，我的背一点儿都不滑。”鲈鱼游到前面说。"
"‘No; but you are really TOO rough,’ returned the fox.","“不行，你的背太扎了。”狐狸回复说。"
"‘Well, you can have no fault to find with ME,’ put in the trout.","“这样的话，你选我准没错。”鳟鱼挤进来喊。"
"‘Good gracious! are YOU here?’ exclaimed the fox.","“天啊，乖乖，原来是你啊！”狐狸惊叫，"
"‘But I’m afraid to trust myself to you either.’","“把自己交给你，我还是不放心啊。”"
"At this moment a fine salmon swam slowly up.","这时候，一条漂亮的大马哈鱼慢慢游了过来。"
"‘Ah, yes, you are the person I want,’ said the fox; ‘but come near, so that I may get on your back, without wetting my feet.’","“啊，我等的就是你！”狐狸说，“再靠近一点儿，让我爬到你背上去，免得弄湿我的脚。”"
"So the salmon swam close under the island, and when he was touching it the fox seized him in his claws and drew him out of the water, and put him on a spit, while he kindled a fire to cook him by.","大马哈鱼靠到岸边，狐狸突然伸出爪子，将它提出水面，穿在一根杆子上，并开始烧火煮鱼。"
"When everything was ready, and the water in the pot was getting hot, he popped him in, and waited till he thought the salmon was nearly boiled.","等一切准备就绪，锅里的水也变热了，狐狸迅速地把鱼扔到里面，一直等啊等，直到它觉得鱼快要煮熟了。"
"But as he stooped down the water gave a sudden fizzle, and splashed into the fox’s eyes, blinding him.","就在狐狸弯下身去看的一刹那，水突然发出嘶嘶的响声，四处飞溅，烫瞎了它的眼睛。"
"He started backwards with a cry of pain, and sat still for some minutes, rocking himself to and fro.","狐狸痛苦地嗷嗷大叫，一屁股坐到地上晃来晃去，好几分钟才缓过劲来。"
"When he was a little better he rose and walked down a road till he met a grouse, who stopped and asked what was the matter.","它感觉好一点儿后，便踉跄地站起来，沿着大路走去，中途碰到了一只松鸡。松鸡停下来打听是怎么回事。"
"‘Have you a pair of eyes anywhere about you?’ asked the fox politely.","“你身上有一对多余的眼睛吗？”狐狸殷勤地问。"
"‘No, I am afraid I haven’t,’ answered the grouse, and passed on.","“真抱歉，我没有多余的。”松鸡回答，说着就走开了。"
"A little while after the fox heard the buzzing of an early bee, whom a gleam of sun had tempted out.","过了一会儿，一只早起的蜜蜂迎着太阳飞来，嗡嗡地叫个不停。"
"‘Do you happen to have an extra pair of eyes anywhere?’ asked the fox.","“你身上正巧有一对多余的眼睛吗？”狐狸问。"
"‘I am sorry to say I have only those I am using,’ replied the bee.","“很抱歉我只有一对眼睛，就是我正用着的这对。”蜜蜂回答。"
"And the fox went on till he nearly fell over an asp who was gliding across the road.","狐狸继续往前走，忽然被什么绊了一下，差点儿跌倒。原来是一条角蝰正在大路上滑行。"
"‘I should be SO glad if you would tell me where I could get a pair of eyes,’ said the fox.","“你能告诉我哪里能找到一对眼睛吗？我一辈子都会感激你的，”狐狸说，"
"‘I suppose you don’t happen to have any you could lend me?’","“我猜想你没有什么恰巧可以借给我的吧？”"
"‘Well, if you only want them for a short time, perhaps I could manage,’ answered the asp; ‘but I can’t do without them for long.’","“好吧，如果你只借一会儿，或许还可以，”角蝰回答，“但是没有它们我撑不了多久。”"
"‘Oh, it is only for a very short time that I need them,’ said the fox; ‘I have a pair of my own just behind that hill, and when I find them I will bring yours back to you.","“嗯，我只借用一小会儿，”狐狸说，“我自己有一对眼睛，掉在那座小山后面了。我找到自己的就把你的还给你。"
"Perhaps you will keep these till them.’","你可以先凑合着用用这对。”"
" So he took the eyes out of his own head and popped them into the head of the asp, and put the asp’s eyes in their place.","狐狸就从脑袋上取出自己的瞎眼，很快安到蛇的脑袋上，又把对方的眼睛放进了自己的眼眶。"
"As he was running off he cried over his shoulder: ‘As long as the world lasts the asps’ eyes will go down in the heads of foxes from generation to generation.’","它边跑开边得意地大叫：“只要世界还在，角蝰的眼睛就会在狐狸脑袋上一代一代传下去。”"
"And so it has been; and if you look at the eyes of an asp you will see that they are all burnt; and though thousands and thousands of years have gone by since the fox was going about playing tricks upon everybody he met, the asp still bears the traces of the day when the sly creature cooked the salmon.","事实正是如此。如果你留意观察就会发现，蛇的眼睛仿佛被烫瞎了一样。狡猾的狐狸惹是生非，捉弄自己遇到的每个人，现在几千年过去了，但它煮大马哈鱼的那天遇到的不幸，却被永远转接到了角蝰的身上。"

