"书名我们庆祝的日子（欧·亨利经典短篇小说）短简介作者在小说《我们庆祝的日子》中以一只只会说“圣诞快乐”的鹦鹉为引子，回忆了瘸子比布和朋友山姆被困在南美洲的一段日子。作者以比布的视角，讲述了当时生活的落魄潦倒。文中反复提到在热带生活容易让人忘记季节和日期，为情节的发展和出人意料的故事结局埋下了伏笔。长简介美国人比布和他的英国朋友山姆在南美洲热带地区的一个小镇上过着贫困潦倒的生活。终日的劳作加上热带的气候让他们很快忘记了季节和时间。一天，比布看到街边挂出了美国国旗，便猜测可能到了国庆日，于是他用自以为正确的方式庆祝了这个日子，可当他知道了真正的日子之后却惊愕不已。小说中形象入微的人物刻画和典型的欧·亨利式结尾让人读后不禁陷入沉思。小说对英美两国人对对方的感受略有体现，但更多的是对社会底层种种现象的披露，着力刻画了底层百姓的真实生活及心理状况。关键字我们庆祝的日子；欧·亨利；外研社编译组；短篇；鹦鹉；热带；节日作者（美）欧·亨利作者简介欧·亨利（1862—1910），美国著名批判现实主义作家，世界三大短篇小说大师之一，被誉为“曼哈顿桂冠散文作家”和“美国现代短篇小说之父”。他的一生富于传奇性，做过药房学徒、会计、新闻记者、银行出纳等多个工作。其作品构思新颖，语言诙谐，人物众多，富于生活情趣，尤以出人意料的结尾闻名，被誉为“美国生活的幽默百科全书”。书评 当我轻松地对待可笑的事物时，我也是严肃地对待它。——马克思在憎恨的深渊中，和平显得尤为神圣。"
"The Day We Celebrate","我们庆祝的日子"
"by O. Henry","作者：欧·亨利"
"“In the tropics” (“Hop-along” Bibb, the bird fancier, was saying to me) “the seasons, months, fortnights, week-ends, holidays, dog-days, Sundays, and yesterdays get so jumbled together in the shuffle that you never know when a year has gone by until you’re in the middle of the next one.”","“在热带地区，”养鸟迷“瘸子”比布对我说，“四季、月份、双周、周末、节日、伏天、周日和昨天就像洗过的牌一样混在一起，只有到了第二年年中，你才会意识到第一年已经过去了。”"
"“Hop-along” Bibb kept his bird store on lower Fourth Avenue.","“瘸子”比布在第四大道南边开了家鸟店。"
"He was an ex-seaman and beachcomber who made regular voyages to southern ports and imported personally conducted invoices of talking parrots and dialectic paroquets.","他以前当过水手，也曾在码头流浪过。他会定期去南部港口，亲自订购会讲话的鹦鹉和会说方言的长尾小鹦鹉。"
"He had a stiff knee, neck, and nerve.","他的膝部和脖子都不灵活，人也很固执。"
"I had gone to him to buy a parrot to present, at Christmas, to my Aunt Joanna.","我曾去他那里买过一只鹦鹉，准备在圣诞节时送给乔安娜姑妈。"
"“This one,” said I, disregarding his homily on the subdivisions of time—“this one that seems all red, white, and blue—to what genus of beasts does he belong?","“这只，”我说，不去理会他关于时间细分的说教，“这只像是有红、白、蓝三色羽毛的鸟属于什么种类呢？"
"He appeals at once to my patriotism and to my love of discord in colour schemes.”","它立刻勾起了我的爱国情怀和对颜色混搭的钟爱。”"
"“That’s a cockatoo from Ecuador,” said Bibb.","“那是厄瓜多尔的凤头鹦鹉。”比布说，"
"“All he has been taught to say is ‘Merry Christmas.’","“它只会说一句‘圣诞快乐’。"
"A seasonable bird.","这是只应景的鸟。"
"He’s only seven dollars; and I’ll bet many a human has stuck you for more money by making the same speech to you.”","它只卖七美金。我敢打赌，许多人对你说相同的话是想让你破费更多。”"
"And then Bibb laughed suddenly and loudly.","之后，比布突然间大笑起来。"
"“That bird,” he explained, “reminds me.","“那只鸟，”他解释说，“让我想起了一件事。"
"He’s got his dates mixed.","它总是把日期搞混。"
"He ought to be saying ‘E pluribus unum,’ to match his feathers, instead of trying to work the Santa Claus graft.","为了和它的羽毛匹配，它应该说‘合众为一’，而不是努力扮成圣诞老人。"
"It reminds me of the time me and Liverpool Sam got our ideas of things tangled up on the coast of Costa Rica on account of the weather and other phenomena to be met with in the tropics.","这让我想到了我和利物浦·萨姆在哥斯达黎加的那段日子。由于天气和热带地区其他现象的原因，我们把很多事情的概念都搞混了。"
"“We were, as it were, stranded on that section of the Spanish main with no money to speak of and no friends that should be talked about either.","“可以说，我们当时被困在了美洲大陆加勒比海沿岸，既没钱可花，也没有朋友可帮忙。"
"We had stoked and second-cooked ourselves down there on a fruit steamer from New Orleans to try our luck, which was discharged, after we got there, for lack of evidence.","我们是搭乘一艘从新奥尔良出发的水果船去碰运气的，在船上，我们分别担任司炉和副厨，但因为证件不齐，我们一到那里就被解雇了。"
"There was no work suitable to our instincts; so me and Liverpool began to subsist on the red rum of the country and such fruit as we could reap where we had not sown.","由于找不到我们能干的工作，我跟利物浦只好靠当地的红朗姆酒和偷吃人家的水果维持生活。"
"It was an alluvial town, called Soledad, where there was no harbour or future or recourse.","这个镇名叫孤独镇，它是建在冲积土层上的。这里既没有海港，也没有未来，更没有依靠。"
"Between steamers the town slept and drank rum.","在没有船靠岸的日子，小镇上的人除了睡觉就是喝朗姆酒。"
"It only woke up when there were bananas to ship.","只有在装运香蕉时，小镇才醒过来。"
"It was like a man sleeping through dinner until the dessert.","就像一个在整个正餐期间都睡觉的人，只在最后上甜品的时候才睁开眼睛。"
"“When me and Liverpool got so low down that the American consul wouldn’t speak to us we knew we’d struck bed rock.","“当我和利物浦穷困潦倒，就连美国领事都懒得理我们的时候，我们终于意识到自己已经走投无路了。"
"“We boarded with a snuff-brown lady named Chica, who kept a rum-shop and a ladies’ and gents’ restaurant in a street called the calle de los Forty-seven Inconsolable Saints.","“我们寄宿在一位名叫希卡的深褐色皮肤的女士那里，她在四十七悲哀圣徒街经营着一家朗姆酒店和一家男女客人都接待的餐馆。"
"When our credit played out there, Liverpool, whose stomach overshadowed his sensations of noblesse oblige, married Chica.","当我们再也赊不到一点儿账的时候，利物浦为了生计也顾不得有没有感情了，他同希卡结了婚。"
"This kept us in rice and fried plantain for a month; and then Chica pounded Liverpool one morning sadly and earnestly for fifteen minutes with a casserole handed down from the stone age, and we knew that we had out-welcomed our liver.","就这样，我们白吃了一个月的米饭和炸香蕉。随后的一天早晨，希卡用一个从石器时代传下来的砂锅伤心而认真地揍了利物浦整整15分钟，我们这才明白我们让这位好心人忍无可忍了。"
"That night we signed an engagement with Don Jaime McSpinosa, a hybrid banana fancier of the place, to work on his fruit preserves nine miles out of town.","那天晚上，我们同当地的混血香蕉迷唐海梅·麦克斯宾诺莎签了合同，到他位于小镇九英里以外的水果园去工作。"
"We had to do it or be reduced to sea water and broken doses of feed and slumber.","我们必须这么做，不然就得流落海滩，食不果腹，无处栖身。"
"“Now, speaking of Liverpool Sam, I don’t malign or inexculpate him to you any more than I would to his face.","“说到利物浦·萨姆，即使是当着他的面，我也会不留情面地说说他。"
"But in my opinion, when an Englishman gets as low as he can he’s got to dodge so that the dregs of other nations don’t drop ballast on him out of their balloons.","但依我看，要是一个英国人沦落到如此境地，他最好小心谨慎，不要被其他民族渣滓从热气球上扔下来的压舱物砸到。"
"And if he’s a Liverpool Englishman, why, fire-damp is what he’s got to look out for.","要是他是个利物浦人，嘿，他应该小心的就应该是沼气了。"
"Being a natural American, that’s my personal view.","作为一个地道的美国人，我就是这么想的。"
"But Liverpool and me had much in common.","但利物浦和我有很多共同之处。"
"We were without decorous clothes or ways and means of existence; and, as the saying goes, misery certainly does enjoy the society of accomplices.","我们没有体面的衣服和正经的生存手段，就像俗话说的，我们同病相怜。"
"“Our job on old McSpinosa’s plantation was chopping down banana stalks and loading the bunches of fruit on the backs of horses.","“在老麦克斯宾诺莎的种植园里，我们的工作是砍下香蕉秆，再把一串串香蕉放在马背上。"
"Then a native dressed up in an alligator hide belt, a machete, and a pair of AA sheeting pajamas, drives ’em over to the coast and piles ’em up on the beach.","之后，一个腰系鳄鱼皮带，手持大砍刀，身穿床单改成的特大号睡衣的本地人就会把这些香蕉运到海岸边，堆在沙滩上。"
"“You ever been in a banana grove?","“你去过香蕉林吗？"
"It’s as solemn as a rathskeller at seven a. m.","那里庄严得就像是早晨7点的德国地下啤酒馆似的。"
"It’s like being lost behind the scenes at one of these mushroom musical shows.","一进去，你就好像在独幕音乐剧布景后面迷失了方向。"
"You can’t see the sky for the foliage above you; and the ground is knee deep in rotten leaves; and it’s so still that you can hear the stalks growing again after you chop ’em down.","头上的繁叶使你根本看不见天空，地上是没膝深的腐叶，四周一片寂静，你甚至能够听到香蕉秆被砍倒后重新生长的声音。"
"“At night me and Liverpool herded in a lot of grass huts on the edge of a lagoon with the red, yellow, and black employés of Don Jaime.","“晚上，我同利物浦，还有唐海梅雇的红、黄、黑皮肤的工人们聚集在环礁湖边的一片茅草屋里。"
"There we lay fighting mosquitoes and listening to the monkeys squalling and the alligators grunting and splashing in the lagoon until daylight with only snatches of sleep between times.","我们躺在那里一边打着蚊子，一边听着猴子的尖叫声、湖中鳄鱼的呼噜声和戏水声。我们就这么断断续续地睡着，直到天亮。"
"“We soon lost all idea of what time of the year it was.","“我们很快就没有了季节的概念。"
"It’s just about eighty degrees there in December and June and on Fridays and at midnight and election day and any other old time.","不管是十二月还是六月，也不管是星期五还是午夜，又或是选举日和其他什么老日子，那里的气温总保持在华氏八十度左右。"
"Sometimes it rains more than at others, and that’s all the difference you notice.","有时候雨水会比较多，这也是你能注意到的唯一不同。"
"A man is liable to live along there without noticing any fugiting of tempus until some day the undertaker calls in for him just when he’s beginning to think about cutting out the gang and saving up a little to invest in real estate.","在那里，一个人很容易会不去在意光阴似箭，而正当他打算离开这帮同样混日子的伙计们，攒钱买房时，殡仪馆的人也上门为他料理后事了。"
"“I don’t know how long we worked for Don Jaime; but it was through two or three rainy spells, eight or ten hair cuts, and the life of three pairs of sail-cloth trousers.","“我不知道我们为唐海梅干了多久，只知道大概过了两三个雨季，理过八九次发，穿破了三条帆布裤子。"
"All the money we earned went for rum and tobacco; but we ate, and that was something.","我们把挣的钱全都花在了朗姆酒和烟草上，但我们终于有饭吃了，这才是重要的。"
"“All of a sudden one day me and Liverpool find the trade of committing surgical operations on banana stalks turning to aloes and quinine in our mouths.","“突然有一天，我和利物浦发现，给香蕉秆动外科手术的活就像嚼芦荟油和奎宁那么索然无味。"
"It’s a seizure that often comes upon white men in Latin and geographical countries.","这种情况经常会发生在拉丁美洲和其他地区的白人身上。"
"We wanted to be addressed again in language and see the smoke of a steamer and read the real estate transfers and gents’ outfitting ads in an old newspaper.","我们想再听听人说的话，看看蒸汽船冒出的白烟，翻翻旧报纸，瞧瞧有关房地产转让和男人服装的广告。"
"Even Soledad seemed like a centre of civilization to us, so that evening we put our thumbs on our nose at Don Jaime’s fruit stand and shook his grass burrs off our feet.","就连孤独镇也成了我们心目中的文明中心。于是，那天晚上我们用拇指顶着鼻尖，朝着唐海梅的水果摊做了个不屑一顾的手势，甩掉粘在脚上的草，扬长而去。"
"“It was only twelve miles to Soledad, but it took me and Liverpool two days to get there.","“到孤独镇只有12英里，但我和利物浦却花了两天时间才到。"
"It was banana grove nearly all the way; and we got twisted time and again.","沿路几乎全是香蕉林，我们总是在原地打转。"
"It was like paging the palm room of a New York hotel for a man named Smith.","就像在纽约一个巴掌大的酒店房间里喊着找一个叫史密斯的人一样。"
"“When we saw the houses of Soledad between the trees all my disinclination toward this Liverpool Sam rose up in me.","“当我们在树丛中看到孤独镇的房屋时，我对这个利物浦·萨姆的厌恶全部涌上心头。"
"I stood him while we were two white men against the banana brindles; but now, when there were prospects of my exchanging even cuss words with an American citizen, I put him back in his proper place.","当只有我们两个白人对着一堆各色人种时，我容忍了他；但现在，我可以和其他美国公民交谈，甚至是用粗口对骂了，他就该从哪儿来回哪儿去了。"
"And he was a sight, too, with his rum-painted nose and his red whiskers and elephant feet with leather sandals strapped to them.","再看看他这副德性：酒糟鼻子、红胡子，还有一双被皮凉鞋牢牢捆着的大象脚。"
"I suppose I looked about the same.","我猜我看起来也和他差不多。"
"“‘It looks to me,’ says I, ‘like Great Britain ought to be made to keep such gin-swilling, scurvy, unbecoming mud larks as you at home instead of sending ’em over here to degrade and taint foreign lands.","“‘依我看，’我说，‘大不列颠应该把像你这样嗜酒如命、卑鄙下流、不成气候的捡破烂的留在国内，而不该把你送出来丢人，而且还糟蹋了外国的土地。"
"We kicked you out of America once and we ought to put on rubber boots and do it again.’","我们曾经把你们踢出了美洲，现在我们应该穿上橡胶靴子再踢一次。’"
"“‘Oh, you go to ’ell,’ says Liverpool, which was about all the repartee he ever had.","“‘哦，见你的鬼去吧。’利物浦说，除了这句他再想不出其他反驳的话了。"
"“Well, Soledad, looked fine to me after Don Jaime ‘s plantation.","“在唐海梅的种植园呆过之后，孤独镇在我看来的确不错。"
"Liverpool and me walked into it side by side, from force of habit, past the calabosa and the Hotel Grande, down across the plaza toward Chica’s hut, where we hoped that Liverpool, being a husband of hers, might work his luck for a meal.","习惯使然，我和利物浦并肩走进了镇子，我们走过监狱和大饭店，穿过广场，直奔希卡的小屋，希望她能看在利物浦曾是她丈夫的份上赏我们顿饭吃。"
"“As we passed the two-story little frame house occupied by the American Club, we noticed that the balcony had been decorated all around with wreaths of evergreens and flowers, and the flag was flying from the pole on the roof.","“当经过美国俱乐部那两层高的小木屋时，我们发现阳台到处都挂满了用常青藤和鲜花制作的花环，国旗在屋顶的旗杆上迎风飘扬。"
"Stanzey, the consul, and Arkright, a gold-mine owner, were smoking on the balcony.","斯坦泽领事和金矿老板阿克赖特正在阳台上抽烟。"
"Me and Liverpool waved our dirty hands toward ’em and smiled real society smiles; but they turned their backs to us and went on talking.","我和利物浦向他们挥了挥我们脏兮兮的手，露出合乎社交礼仪的笑容，但他们对我们不理不睬，继续聊天。"
"And we had played whist once with the two of ’em up to the time when Liverpool held all thirteen trumps for four hands in succession.","我们曾和他俩玩过惠斯特桥牌，直到有一次，利物浦连续四把都弄到了十三张王牌，他们再也不跟我们玩了。"
"It was some holiday, we knew; but we didn’t know the day nor the year.","我们知道那一天一定是个什么节日，却不知道是哪年哪日。"
"“A little further along we saw a reverend man named Pendergast, who had come to Soledad to build a church, standing under a cocoanut palm with his little black alpaca coat and green umbrella.","“又往前走了一段，我们看到了一位叫彭德格斯特的牧师，他正站在一片椰子树叶下，身穿黑色羊驼呢小外套，手中撑着一把绿雨伞。他来到孤独镇后建了一座教堂。"
"“‘Boys, boys!’ says he, through his blue spectacles, ‘is it as bad as this?","“‘孩子们，孩子们！’他透过蓝色的眼镜片说道，‘你们的处境这么糟糕吗？"
"Are you so far reduced?’","竟然贫困潦倒到如此境地？’"
"“‘We’re reduced,’ says I, ‘to very vulgar fractions.’","“‘我们落魄了，’我说，‘落魄到了平民的地步。’"
"“‘It is indeed sad,’ says Pendergast, ‘to see my countrymen in such circumstances.’","“‘我真的很难过，’彭德格斯特说，‘看到我的同胞身陷如此境地。’"
"“‘Cut ’arf of that out, old party,’ says Liverpool.","“‘你只说对了一半，老兄，’利物浦说道，"
"‘Cawn’t you tell a member of the British upper classes when you see one?’","‘难道你认不出眼前的是一位英国上层社会人士吗？’"
"“‘Shut up,’ I told Liverpool.","“‘闭嘴，’我对利物浦说道，"
"‘You’re on foreign soil now, or that portion of it that’s not on you.’","‘你现在可是站在外国的土地上，或者说是不属于你们的那部分土地上。’"
"“‘And on this day, too!’ goes on Pendergast, grievous—‘on this most glorious day of the year when we should all be celebrating the dawn of Christian civilization and the downfall of the wicked.’","“‘而且还是在今天！’彭德格斯特郑重其事地继续说道，‘在这一年中最荣耀的日子，我们都应该庆祝基督教文明的开始和邪恶势力的垮台。’"
"“‘I did notice bunting and bouquets decorating the town, reverend,’ says I, ‘but I didn’t know what it was for.","“‘我确实注意到了镇上装饰的彩旗和花束，牧师先生，’我回答，‘但我不知道这是干什么的。"
"We’ve been so long out of touch with calendars that we didn’t know whether it was summer time or Saturday afternoon.’","我们已经很久没有碰过日历了，所以搞不清楚现在是夏天还是一个普通的周六下午。’"
"“‘Here is two dollars,’ says Pendergast digging up two Chili silver wheels and handing ’em to me.","“‘这是两美金，’彭德格斯特掏出两枚银币递给我，"
"‘Go, my men, and observe the rest of the day in a befitting manner.’","‘去吧，孩子们，去用恰当的方式庆祝这个节日剩下的时间吧。’"
"“Me and Liverpool thanked him kindly, and walked away.","“我和利物浦向他表达了衷心的感谢后便走开了。"
"“‘Shall we eat?’ I asks.","“‘我们吃点儿东西吗？’我问道。"
"“‘Oh, ’ell!’ says Liverpool.","“‘哦，该死！’利物浦说道，"
"‘What’s money for?’","‘钱是干什么用的？’"
"“‘Very well, then,’ I says, ‘since you insist upon it, we’ll drink.’","“‘好吧，’我说，‘既然你这么想，我们就喝酒去。’"
"“So we pull up in a rum shop and get a quart of it and go down on the beach under a cocoanut tree and celebrate.","“于是我们走进一家朗姆酒店，买了一夸脱酒，然后走到沙滩的一棵椰子树下开始庆祝。"
"“Not having eaten anything but oranges in two days, the rum has immediate effect; and once more I conjure up great repugnance toward the British nation.","“连续两天了，我们除了橘子什么都没吃，所以酒精立刻起了反应。我对不列颠民族的极大反感再一次涌上来。"
"“‘Stand up here,’ I says to Liverpool, ‘you scum of a despot limited monarchy, and have another dose of Bunker Hill.","“‘在这儿站好，’我对利物浦说，‘你这个专制君主体制下的渣滓，让你再尝尝邦克山的厉害。"
"That good man, Mr. Pendergast,’ says I, ‘said we were to observe the day in a befitting manner, and I’m not going to see his money misapplied.’","那个好人，彭德格斯特先生，’我说，‘说我们要用恰当的方式庆祝这个节日，我可不想看到他的钱就这么白白浪费了。’"
"“‘Oh, you go to ’ell!’ says Liverpool, and I started in with a fine left-hander on his right eye.","“‘哦，你去死吧！’利物浦说道，我就以一记漂亮的左直拳打在了他的右眼上。"
"“Liverpool had been a fighter once, but dissipation and bad company had taken the nerve out of him.","“利物浦曾经是个拳击手，但生活放荡和交友不慎已经夺走了他的全部勇气。"
"In ten minutes I had him lying on the sand waving the white flag.","不到十分钟，我就把他打得趴在沙滩上求饶了。"
"“‘Get up,’ says I, kicking him in the ribs, ‘and come along with me.’","“‘起来，’我踢着他的肋骨说，‘跟我走。’"
"“Liverpool got up and followed behind me because it was his habit, wiping the red off his face and nose.","“利物浦爬起来，习惯性地跟在我后面，一边还擦着脸上和鼻子上的血。"
"I led him to Reverend Pendergast’s shack and called him out.","我领着他来到彭德格斯特牧师的棚屋前，把牧师叫了出来。"
"“‘Look at this, sir,’ says I—‘look at this thing that was once a proud Britisher.","“‘看看，牧师先生，’我说，‘看看这个曾经自以为是的英国人吧。"
"You gave us two dollars and told us to celebrate the day.","你给了我们两美金，让我们好好庆祝节日。"
"The star-spangled banner still waves.","星条旗仍在迎风飘扬。"
"Hurrah for the stars and eagles!’","星星和老鹰万岁！’"
"“‘Dear me,’ says Pendergast, holding up his hands.","“‘天啊，’彭德格斯特举起手来说，"
"‘Fighting on this day of all days!","‘你们居然在一年当中的这天打架！"
"On Christmas day, when peace on—’","在这和睦安宁的圣诞节——’"
"“‘Christmas, hell!’ says I.","“‘圣诞节，见鬼！’我说，"
"‘I thought it was the Fourth of July.’”","‘我还以为是七月四日国庆日呢。’”"
"“Merry Christmas!” said the red, white, and blue cockatoo.","“圣诞快乐！”那只红、白、蓝三色的凤头鹦鹉说道。"
"“Take him for six dollars,” said Hop-along Bibb.","“六美金卖给你，”瘸子比布说，"
"“He’s got his dates and colours mixed.”","“它总把日子和颜色搞混。”"

