"书名普鲁士军官（D. H. 劳伦斯经典短篇小说）短简介残酷的战争和军队的压抑扭曲了普鲁士上尉的性格，专横跋扈的他看到年轻、充满活力的勤务兵与自己僵硬的身体和抑郁的性格形成的鲜明对比，诱发他变得暴戾残忍，于是他千方百计、略带病态地对勤务兵施尽各种折磨。最终勤务兵忍无可忍，亲手杀死了上尉，可也无法抵住精神上的折磨，死在了逃亡的路上。长简介劳伦斯的小说因善于描写性爱曾饱受诟病。短篇小说《普鲁士军官》中，虽然没有露骨的性爱描写，但却同样描述了畸形的情感纠纷。表面上描写的是普鲁士上尉与年轻勤务兵之间的阶级冲突，但劳伦斯通过细致的人物内心描写，同时向我们揭示了两个男人之间，因为战争的残酷和军队内的压抑，产生的一种扭曲了的互相憎恶，又互相吸引的感情。这种畸形的感情对立不断升级，最终只能以悲剧收尾，令人唏嘘不已。关键词普鲁士军官；D. H.  劳伦斯；短篇；军队；阶级冲突；同性恋；生与死作者（英）D. H. 劳伦斯 作者简介D. H. 劳伦斯 （1885—1930），这位出生于诺丁汉矿工家庭的作家是20世纪英国最有成就，也是最具争议的作家之一。男女之间的情爱，和对工业社会的批判是他的主要创作主题。他深受弗洛伊德的影响，作品中善于运用象征手法，小说人物内心刻画十分细腻。在他近20年的创作生涯中为世人留下了10多部小说、3本游记、3卷短篇小说集，数本诗集、散文集、书信集，另有多幅美术作品。书评劳伦斯是我们这一代最伟大的富于想象力的小说家。他在他的作品中创造了光辉灿烂的世界的形形色色的人事物态。——E. M. 福斯特"
"The Prussian Officer","普鲁士军官"
"by D. H. Lawrence","作者：Ｄ. Ｈ. 劳伦斯"
"Content","目录"
"Chapter I","第一章"
"Chapter II","第二章"
"Chapter III","第三章"
"Chapter IV","第四章"

"Chapter I","第一章"
"They had marched more than thirty kilometres since dawn, along the white, hot road where occasional thickets of trees threw a moment of shade, then out into the glare again.","自黎明开始，他们沿着白晃晃的、炽热的大路已经行进了三十多公里。一路上他们偶有享受着灌木丛林投下的片刻阴凉，接着便又走进刺眼的阳光里了。"
"On either hand, the valley, wide and shallow, glittered with heat; dark green patches of rye, pale young corn, fallow and meadow and black pine woods spread in a dull, hot diagram under a glistening sky.","大路两旁的山谷绵延和缓，在阳光的炙烤下闪闪发光。几片深绿色的黑麦田、浅色的嫩玉米田、休耕地、草地和黑松林，在目眩的天空下延伸开来，呈现出一幅单调而又令人燥热的图画。"
"But right in front the mountains ranged across, pale blue and very still, snow gleaming gently out of the deep atmosphere.","但是在正前方，山岭绵延不断，透露出浅淡的蓝色，十分静谧。白雪在深邃的背景下散发出轻柔的光辉。"
"And towards the mountains, on and on, the regiment marched between the rye fields and the meadows, between the scraggy fruit trees set regularly on either side the high road.","这支步兵团朝着群山的方向前行，片刻不停。他们走过黑麦田和草地，穿过大路两旁栽种整齐的、光秃秃的果林。"
"The burnished, dark green rye threw off a suffocating heat, the mountains drew gradually nearer and more distinct.","深绿色的黑麦闪闪发光，散发出一阵令人窒息的热气。群山逐渐靠近，愈发清晰可见。"
"While the feet of the soldiers grew hotter, sweat ran through their hair under their helmets, and their knapsacks could burn no more in contact with their shoulders, but seemed instead to give off a cold, prickly sensation.","士兵们的脚越走越热，汗水顺着压在头盔下的头发流下。他们的背包与肩膀摩擦过多，已不再感到灼热，反而是一阵冰凉刺骨了。"
"He walked on and on in silence, staring at the mountains ahead, that rose sheer out of the land, and stood fold behind fold, half earth, half heaven, the heaven, the barrier with slits of soft snow, in the pale, bluish peaks.","他默默地向前走着，紧紧盯着前方拔地而起的山峦，一座接着一座，一半是地，一半是天。天空在淡蓝的山峰的映衬下，像是一道有着柔软积雪的裂缝的屏障。"
"He could now walk almost without pain.","现在，他走起来已几乎感觉不到疼痛了。"
"At the start, he had determined not to limp.","出发时，他便下决心不能一瘸一拐地走。"
"It had made him sick to take the first steps, and during the first mile or so, he had compressed his breath, and the cold drops of sweat had stood on his forehead.","迈出的头几步就让他疼得够呛。在走头一英里左右的时候，他一直屏住呼吸，冷汗沁满了他的额头。"
"But he had walked it off.","但是走着走着就不疼了。"
"What were they after all but bruises!","它们不过是几处瘀伤而已！"
"He had looked at them, as he was getting up: deep bruises on the backs of his thighs.","起床时，他就看到了：大腿后侧有几处严重的瘀伤。"
"And since he had made his first step in the morning, he had been conscious of them, till now he had a tight, hot place in his chest, with suppressing the pain, and holding himself in.","清晨踏出第一步时，他便发现这些瘀伤了。一路上他强忍着疼痛，努力不表现出痛苦，结果现在胸口又紧又热。"
"There seemed no air when he breathed.","他仿佛已经呼吸不到空气了。"
"But he walked almost lightly.","但他走得倒相当轻快了。"
"The Captain’s hand had trembled at taking his coffee at dawn: his orderly saw it again.","清晨，上尉端咖啡时手在颤抖：他的勤务兵又看到这种情形了。"
"And he saw the fine figure of the Captain wheeling on horseback at the farm-house ahead, a handsome figure in pale blue uniform with facings of scarlet, and the metal gleaming on the black helmet and the sword-scabbard, and dark streaks of sweat coming on the silky bay horse.","他看到在前方农舍边，身形矫健的上尉跨在马背上前行。他体态优美，穿着镶有紫红色装饰的浅蓝色制服，黑色头盔和剑鞘散发着金属的光泽，光滑的枣红马身上印着一道道深色的汗迹。"
"The orderly felt he was connected with that figure moving so suddenly on horseback: he followed it like a shadow, mute and inevitable and damned by it.","勤务兵感觉他与马背上那个剧烈晃动的身影是连接在一起的：他像个影子一样跟随着，默不作声，身不由己，还要被咒骂。"
"And the officer was always aware of the tramp of the company behind, the march of his orderly among the men.","这位军官也时刻留意着身后那对人沉重的脚步声，知道他的勤务兵也在行进的队伍中。"
"The Captain was a tall man of about forty, grey at the temples.","上尉身材高大，大约40岁，两鬓斑白。"
"He had a handsome, finely knit figure, and was one of the best horsemen in the West.","他身姿挺拔，身材匀称，是西部最好的骑手之一。"
"His orderly, having to rub him down, admired the amazing riding-muscles of his loins.","他的勤务兵，奉命给他擦拭身体，对他骑马练就的腰腹上紧实的肌肉羡煞不已。"
"For the rest, the orderly scarcely noticed the officer any more than he noticed himself.","但是军官其他的部位，勤务兵并不怎么在意，就跟他不在意自己一样。"
"It was rarely he saw his master’s face: he did not look at it.","他很少看到他上司的脸：他也从来没看过。"
"The Captain had reddish-brown, stiff hair, that he wore short upon his skull.","上尉有着一头红棕色的短发，硬邦邦地竖在脑袋上。"
"His moustache was also cut short and bristly over a full, brutal mouth.","他的胡须也修剪得又短又硬，分布在那张饱满、粗犷的嘴上。"
"His face was rather rugged, the cheeks thin.","他面孔刚毅，脸颊消瘦。"
"Perhaps the man was the more handsome for the deep lines in his face, the irritable tension of his brow, which gave him the look of a man who fights with life.","或许，正是他脸上的深深的皱纹和眉宇间显露出的易躁神情，使他看上去更为英俊。这种易躁神情反而让人觉得他是一个与生活抗争的人。"
"His fair eyebrows stood bushy over light blue eyes that were always flashing with cold fire.","整齐浓密的眉毛下，那双浅蓝色的眼睛时刻喷射着冰冷的火焰。"
"He was a Prussian aristocrat, haughty and overbearing.","他是一位普鲁士贵族，桀骜不驯，飞扬跋扈。"
"But his mother had been a Polish Countess.","但他的母亲曾是一名波兰女伯爵。"
"Having made too many gambling debts when he was young, he had ruined his prospects in the Army, and remained an infantry captain.","年轻时他欠了太多赌债，自毁了在部队中的大好前程，至今仍是一名步兵团上尉。"
"He had never married: his position did not allow of it, and no woman had ever moved him to it.","他从未婚娶：他的职位不允许结婚，而且他也没遇到过想要与之结婚的女人。"
"His time he spent riding—occasionally he rode one of his own horses at the races—and at the officers’ club.","他把时间都花在了骑马上——偶尔骑着他的某匹马参加比赛——或是混迹在军官俱乐部里。"
"Now and then he took himself a mistress.","时不时他会给自己找个情妇。"
"But after such an event, he returned to duty with his brow still more tense, his eyes still more hostile and irritable.","但是一段风流韵事过后，当他重返军营，眉头却拧得更紧了，眼里的敌意和怒气更加深了。"
"With the men, however, he was merely impersonal, though a devil when roused; so that, on the whole, they feared him, but had no great aversion from him.","然而，对士兵们来说，他只是有些冷淡无情，可一旦被惹怒，他体内的魔鬼便会被唤醒。总的来说，大家都畏惧他，但也不是十分厌恶。"
"They accepted him as the inevitable.","大家都迫于无奈地接受了他。"
"To his orderly he was at first cold and just and indifferent: he did not fuss over trifles.","起初他对他的勤务兵冷酷、公正、淡漠：他从不为琐事大动干戈。"
"So that his servant knew practically nothing about him, except just what orders he would give, and how he wanted them obeyed.","因此他的勤务兵实际上对他也所知甚少，只知道他会下什么样的命令，他希望大家怎样服从他。"
"That was quite simple.","那还是相当简单的。"
"Then the change gradually came.","可后来逐渐出现了变化。"
"The orderly was a youth of about twenty-two, of medium height, and well built.","勤务兵是位20岁左右的小伙子，中等个头，身体健硕。"
"He had strong, heavy limbs, was swarthy, with a soft, black, young moustache.","他的四肢粗壮有力，皮肤黝黑，唇上长着黑茸茸的小胡子。"
"There was something altogether warm and young about him.","他全身散发着一股热情和青春的气息。"
"He had firmly marked eyebrows over dark, expressionless eyes, that seemed never to have thought, only to have received life direct through his senses, and acted straight from instinct.","轮廓分明的眉毛下面是一对黑色的眼睛，毫无神采，似乎从来没思考过，只是依靠他的感觉生活着，完全凭着本能行事。"
"Gradually the officer had become aware of his servant’s young, vigorous, unconscious presence about him.","逐渐地，军官开始觉察到这个充满年轻活力、无忧无虑的勤务兵的存在。"
"He could not get away from the sense of the youth’s person, while he was in attendance.","勤务兵在场时，他便无法将注意力从这位年轻人身上移开。"
"It was like a warm flame upon the older man’s tense, rigid body, that had become almost unliving, fixed.","这仿佛像是在这位长者僵硬紧绷、几无生气的身体里燃起一道温暖的火焰。"
"There was something so free and self-contained about him, and something in the young fellow’s movement, that made the officer aware of him.","他身上散发出一种自由和独立气息，同时这位年轻勤务兵的行为举止中流露出的某种特质吸引了军官的注意。"
"And this irritated the Prussian.","但这却惹恼了这位普鲁士人。"
"He did not choose to be touched into life by his servant.","他可不想由他的勤务兵来引领他体味生活。"
"He might easily have changed his man, but he did not.","他其实可以随便换一个勤务兵，可他没这么做。"
"He now very rarely looked direct at his orderly, but kept his face averted, as if to avoid seeing him.","他现在很少直接看他的勤务兵，而是将脸转向别处，像是为了避免看见他。"
"And yet as the young soldier moved unthinking about the apartment, the elder watched him, and would notice the movement of his strong young shoulders under the blue cloth, the bend of his neck.","然而，当这位年轻的士兵在公寓里随意走动时，他会看着他，注视着年轻人那蓝色布料下摆动着的结实肩头，还有那颈部的曲线。"
"And it irritated him.","这惹恼了他。"
"To see the soldier’s young, brown, shapely peasant’s hand grasp the loaf or the wine-bottle sent a flash of hate or of anger through the elder man’s blood.","看到士兵那双年轻的、深棕色的、好看的农民的手抓着面包或酒瓶，这位长者的血液中便会流过一股愤恨或怒气。"
"It was not that the youth was clumsy: it was rather the blind, instinctive sureness of movement of an unhampered young animal that irritated the officer to such a degree.","并非因为这个年轻人动作笨拙，而是一只无拘无束的幼兽在行动中显露出的盲目和出于本能的自信，让军官恼怒不已。"
"Once, when a bottle of wine had gone over, and the red gushed out on to the tablecloth, the officer had started up with an oath, and his eyes, bluey like fire, had held those of the confused youth for a moment.","有一次，年轻人打翻了一瓶红酒，红色的液体洒到了桌布上，军官破口大骂。他的双眼，仿佛蓝色的火焰，将年轻人困惑的眼神裹挟了片刻。"
"It was a shock for the young soldier.","年轻的士兵吓得惊慌失措。"
"He felt something sink deeper, deeper into his soul, where nothing had ever gone before.","他觉得什么东西在下沉，沉入了他的灵魂深处，从未被触碰过的地方。"
"It left him rather blank and wondering.","这让他茫然不知所措。"
"Some of his natural completeness in himself was gone, a little uneasiness took its place.","他体内与生俱来的某些完整的东西丧失了，取而代之的是些许不安。"
"And from that time an undiscovered feeling had held between the two men.","自此，这两个男人之间潜藏着一种微妙的感情。"
"Henceforward the orderly was afraid of really meeting his master.","从那以后，勤务兵便害怕与他的上司正面相见。"
"His subconsciousness remembered those steely blue eyes and the harsh brows, and did not intend to meet them again.","他在潜意识中记着那对坚毅的蓝眼睛和粗糙的浓眉，并决定再也不去面对它们。"
"So he always stared past his master, and avoided him.","于是他总是不直视他的主人，并刻意躲着他。"
"Also, in a little anxiety, he waited for the three months to have gone, when his time would be up.","同时，他略微焦急地等着三个月赶快过去，那时他的任务就结束了。"
"He began to feel a constraint in the Captain’s presence, and the soldier even more than the officer wanted to be left alone, in his neutrality as servant.","他开始感到，只要上尉在场，便会产生一种拘束感，这位士兵比军官更渴望独处，仅仅当一名勤务兵。"
"He had served the Captain for more than a year, and knew his duty.","他已经服侍上尉一年多了，也清楚自己的职责。"
"This he performed easily, as if it were natural to him.","这对他来说轻而易举，好像他生来就是做这些的。"
"The officer and his commands he took for granted, as he took the sun and the rain, and he served as a matter of course.","他将军官和他的命令看作天经地义的事，就像出太阳和下雨也是理所当然的一样，他尽忠职守，毫无怨言。"
"It did not implicate him personally.","对他个人来说，其中没有特别寓意。"
"But now if he were going to be forced into a personal interchange with his master he would be like a wild thing caught, he felt he must get away.","但是现在如果迫使他与上司正面交流，他会像一只被俘的野兽，觉得自己必须挣脱。"
"But the influence of the young soldier’s being had penetrated through the officer’s stiffened discipline, and perturbed the man in him.","但是这位年轻士兵的存在已经动摇了军官严苛的戒律，并搅动着他的内心。"
"He, however, was a gentleman, with long, fine hands and cultivated movements, and was not going to allow such a thing as the stirring of his innate self.","然而，他是一位绅士，拥有一双修长、匀称的双手；他行为端正、举止优雅，绝不容许这种事情惊扰他内心中的真实自我。"
"He was a man of passionate temper, who had always kept himself suppressed.","他是个脾气暴躁的人，不过总在努力克制着自己罢了。"
"Occasionally there had been a duel, an outburst before the soldiers.","士兵之间偶尔会产生争斗，他也会在士兵们面前宣泄情绪。"
"He knew himself to be always on the point of breaking out.","他知道自己总是处于爆发的边缘。"
"But he kept himself hard to the idea of the Service.","但是考虑到身处军营，他必须努力克制自己。"
"Whereas the young soldier seemed to live out his warm, full nature, to give it off in his very movements, which had a certain zest, such as wild animals have in free movement.","可年轻士兵的一举一动无不展现出他的热情和浑然天性，流露出某种热情，就像自由自在的野兽一样。"
"And this irritated the officer more and more.","这使得军官愈发恼怒。"
"In spite of himself, the Captain could not regain his neutrality of feeling towards his orderly.","不知不觉地，上尉无法再对他的勤务兵保持普通的情感了。"
"Nor could he leave the man alone.","他也不能让这个男人独自呆着。"
"In spite of himself, he watched him, gave him sharp orders, tried to take up as much of his time as possible.","不自觉地，他盯着他，对他发出苛刻的命令，试图尽可能多地占用他的时间。"
"Sometimes he flew into a rage with the young soldier, and bullied him.","有时他会对这个年轻的士兵大发雷霆，还欺辱他。"
"Then the orderly shut himself off, as it were out of earshot, and waited, with sullen, flushed face, for the end of the noise.","勤务兵此时会将自己与外界隔离，装作听不见，涨红着脸，一副郁郁寡欢的样子，等待着喧嚣停止。"
"The words never pierced to his intelligence, he made himself, protectively, impervious to the feelings of his master.","这些话从没有刺中过他的心灵，出于自我保护，他不为主人情绪所影响。"
"He had a scar on his left thumb, a deep seam going across the knuckle.","他的左手拇指上有一道伤疤，缝线深深地绕在指关节上。"
"The officer had long suffered from it, and wanted to do something to it.","军官被这道疤痕折磨得够久了，一直想对它做点儿什么。"
"Still it was there, ugly and brutal on the young, brown hand.","可它总是在那里，在年轻人棕色的手上，丑陋又粗鄙。"
"At last the Captain’s reserve gave way.","终于，上尉按捺不住了。"
"One day, as the orderly was smoothing out the tablecloth, the officer pinned down his thumb with a pencil, asking:","一天，勤务兵正在整理桌布，军官用一支铅笔顶住他的拇指，问道："
"“How did you come by that?”","“那是怎么弄的？”"
"The young man winced and drew back at attention.","年轻人的脸抽搐了一下，退后立正。"
"“A wood axe, Herr Hauptmann,” he answered.","“劈柴时斧子砍的，上尉。”他答道。"
"The officer waited for further explanation.","军官等着他继续解释。"
"None came.","可没了后文。"
"The orderly went about his duties.","勤务兵继续干他的活去了。"
"The elder man was sullenly angry.","年长者闷闷不乐，十分气愤。"
"His servant avoided him.","他的勤务兵躲着他。"
"And the next day he had to use all his will-power to avoid seeing the scarred thumb.","第二天他不得不费尽所有的意念，不去瞧那带着伤疤的拇指。"
"He wanted to get hold of it and—A hot flame ran in his blood.","他想要握住那拇指——一股炙热的火焰在他的血脉中燃烧。"
"He knew his servant would soon be free, and would be glad.","他知道他的勤务兵很快便会获得自由。他那时定会很高兴。"
"As yet, the soldier had held himself off from the elder man.","士兵仍然刻意回避着年长者。"
"The Captain grew madly irritable.","上尉恼羞成怒了。"
"He could not rest when the soldier was away, and when he was present, he glared at him with tormented eyes.","士兵不在时，他坐立难安；士兵在场时，他那备受煎熬的双眼又死死盯着他。"
"He hated those fine, black brows over the unmeaning, dark eyes, he was infuriated by the free movement of the handsome limbs, which no military discipline could make stiff.","他痛恨那对长在无神的黑色眼睛上好看的黑眉毛，士兵健硕的四肢和灵活的动作也使他愤怒，任何军纪都无法使肢体如此挺拔。"
"And he became harsh and cruelly bullying, using contempt and satire.","他变本加厉地欺辱他，时而蔑视，时而讥讽。"
"The young soldier only grew more mute and expressionless.","年轻士兵却变得更加沉默寡言，面无表情。"
"“What cattle were you bred by, that you can’t keep straight eyes?","“你是吃什么长大的，为什么不能正眼看人？"
"Look me in the eyes when I speak to you.”","我跟你讲话的时候看着我的眼睛。”"
"And the soldier turned his dark eyes to the other’s face, but there was no sight in them: he stared with the slightest possible cast, holding back his sight, perceiving the blue of his master’s eyes, but receiving no look from them.","士兵将黑色的双眼投向对方的脸，但是眼中没有任何神采：他尽可能地只是盯着他，没有眼神流露，虽然他觉察到主人蓝色的双眼，但并没有真正与之对视。"
"And the elder man went pale, and his reddish eyebrows twitched.","年长者的脸色转为苍白，泛红的眉毛抽搐着。"
"He gave his order, barrenly.","他只得随便下了些毫无意义的命令。"
"Once he flung a heavy military glove into the young soldier’s face.","有一次，他将一只厚重的军用手套甩到了年轻士兵的脸上。"
"Then he had the satisfaction of seeing the black eyes flare up into his own, like a blaze when straw is thrown on a fire.","看到那黑色双眼愤怒地瞪着自己的眼睛，他获得了一种满足感，仿佛把稻草投进火中而激起火苗一般。"
"And he had laughed with a little tremor and a sneer.","他微微颤抖地笑着，略带嘲讽。"
"But there were only two months more.","但是只剩两个月了。"
"The youth instinctively tried to keep himself intact: he tried to serve the officer as if the latter were an abstract authority and not a man.","年轻人出于本能地保持无动于衷：他努力地服侍着军官，就好像后者并不是一个人，而是一个抽象的权威。"
"All his instinct was to avoid personal contact, even definite hate.","他以所有的直觉来尽力避免与之有私下接触，甚至避免产生明显的怨恨。"
"But in spite of himself the hate grew, responsive to the officer’s passion.","但是不自觉地，由于军官的坏脾气，怨恨在他体内滋生着。"
"However, he put it in the background.","不过，他将怨恨隐藏在深处。"
"When he had left the Army he could dare acknowledge it.","等他退伍后，便可大胆地承认了。"
"By nature he was active, and had many friends.","他生性活泼，朋友很多。"
"He thought what amazing good fellows they were.","他想，他们都是多么好的伙伴啊。"
"But, without knowing it, he was alone.","但是，不自觉地，他就变得形单影只。"
"Now this solitariness was intensified.","现在这种孤独感变得更加强烈。"
"It would carry him through his term.","这种感觉会在他服役期间一直伴随他。"
"But the officer seemed to be going irritably insane, and the youth was deeply frightened.","可是军官似乎变得丧心病狂了，这让年轻人深感恐惧。"
"The soldier had a sweetheart, a girl from the mountains, independent and primitive.","士兵有个心上人，是一个山里姑娘，独立而又淳朴。"
"The two walked together, rather silently.","两人悄无声息地走到了一起。"
"He went with her, not to talk, but to have his arm round her, and for the physical contact.","他跟她在一起时很少说话，只是搂着她，为了有点儿身体上的接触。"
"This eased him, made it easier for him to ignore the Captain; for he could rest with her held fast against his chest.","这让他感到平静，可以更轻易地忘记上尉，因为他可以将她紧紧搂在胸前，放松片刻。"
"And she, in some unspoken fashion, was there for him.","而她，则默然无声地支持着他。"
"They loved each other.","他们眷恋着彼此。"
"The Captain perceived it, and was mad with irritation.","上尉发现了这事，又气又恼。"
"He kept the young man engaged all the evenings long, and took pleasure in the dark look that came on his face.","他整晚整晚地给年轻人布置各种任务，从他阴郁的表情中获取乐趣。"
"Occasionally, the eyes of the two men met, those of the younger sullen and dark, doggedly unalterable, those of the elder sneering with restless contempt.","两人的眼神偶尔会相遇。年轻人的双眼阴郁黯淡，倔强地瞪着；年长者的双眼中则流露出无尽的蔑视与嘲讽。"
"The officer tried hard not to admit the passion that had got hold of him.","军官拼命地否认他已被一股激情所俘虏。"
"He would not know that his feeling for his orderly was anything but that of a man incensed by his stupid, perverse servant.","他不知道，他对勤务兵的感觉，并不是那种因为勤务兵的愚笨和乖戾而产生的愤怒。"
"So, keeping quite justified and conventional in his consciousness, he let the other thing run on.","因此，他心安理得地保持着他一贯的状态，忙其他事情去了。"
"His nerves, however, were suffering.","然而，他的神经正经受着痛苦地折磨。"
"At last he slung the end of a belt in his servant’s face.","终于，他用一条皮带抽打了他的勤务兵的脸。"
"When he saw the youth start back, the pain-tears in his eyes and the blood on his mouth, he had felt at once a thrill of deep pleasure and of shame.","看着年轻人瞪着他，眼中噙着痛苦的泪水，嘴角上带着血迹，他瞬间感到一阵深切的快感，同时伴着几丝愧疚。"
"But this, he acknowledged to himself, was a thing he had never done before.","但是这种事，他自己也知道，他以前从来没做过。"
"The fellow was too exasperating.","这家伙实在太让人恼火了。"
"His own nerves must be going to pieces.","他自己的神经几近崩溃。"
"He went away for some days with a woman.","于是，他跟一个女人出去呆了一阵子。"
"It was a mockery of pleasure.","那是对寻欢作乐的一种嘲讽。"
"He simply did not want the woman.","他其实一点儿也不想要这个女人。"
"But he stayed on for his time.","可他还是坚持了一段时间。"
"At the end of it, he came back in an agony of irritation, torment, and misery.","最终，他痛苦地回来了，倍感愤怒，受尽折磨。"
"He rode all the evening, then came straight in to supper.","整个傍晚他都在骑马，然后直接回来吃晚饭。"
"His orderly was out.","他的勤务兵出去了。"
"The officer sat with his long, fine hands lying on the table, perfectly still, and all his blood seemed to be corroding.","军官坐着，修长匀称的双手一动不动地搭在桌子上，全身的血液仿佛被腐蚀着。"
"At last his servant entered.","终于，勤务兵走了进来。"
"He watched the strong, easy young figure, the fine eyebrows, the thick black hair.","他看着年轻人健硕、轻盈的身躯、好看的眉毛，还有浓密的黑发。"
"In a week’s time the youth had got back his old well-being.","在这一周的时间里，年轻人重拾了他往日的神采。"
"The hands of the officer twitched and seemed to be full of mad flame.","军官的双手痉挛着，好像满手握着疯狂的火焰。"
"The young man stood at attention, unmoving, shut off.","年轻人立正站好，纹丝不动，一声不吭。"
"The meal went in silence.","二人在一片静默中用餐。"
"But the orderly seemed eager.","但勤务兵看上去有些焦急。"
"He made a clatter with the dishes.","他把餐具碰得叮当响。"
"“Are you in a hurry?”","“你急着有事？”"
"asked the officer, watching the intent, warm face of his servant.","军官看着他的仆从焦急而热切的脸庞问道。"
"The other did not reply.","对方没有回答。"
"“Will you answer my question?”","“你能回答我的问题吗？”"
"said the Captain.","上尉说。"
"“Yes, sir,” replied the orderly, standing with his pile of deep Army plates.","“是的，长官。”勤务兵端着一摞军用餐盘站着回答道。"
"The Captain waited, looked at him, then asked again:","上尉等了等，看着他，接着又问："
"“Are you in a hurry?”","“你急着有事？”"
"“Yes, sir,” came the answer, that sent a flash through the listener.","“是的，长官。”这声回答让听者怒火中烧。"
"“For what?”","“干嘛去？”"
"“I was going out, sir.”","“我要出门，长官。”"
"“I want you this evening.”","“今晚我需要你。”"
"There was a moment’s hesitation.","勤务兵陷入一阵犹豫不决。"
"The officer had a curious stiffness of countenance.","军官露出一种奇特的僵硬神色。"
"“Yes, sir,” replied the servant, in his throat.","“是，长官。”勤务兵的回答哽在了喉头。"
"“I want you tomorrow evening also—in fact, you may consider your evenings occupied, unless I give you leave.”","“明天晚上我也需要你——实际上，你不妨认为你每天晚上都有事，除非我放你假。”"
"The mouth with the young moustache set close.","长着稚嫩胡须的嘴紧闭着。"
"“Yes, sir,” answered the orderly, loosening his lips for a moment.","“是，长官。”勤务兵应道，双唇张开了片刻。"
"He again turned to the door.","他又转身朝门外走去。"
"“And why have you a piece of pencil in your ear?”","“为什么你的耳朵上夹着一支铅笔？”"
"The orderly hesitated, then continued on his way without answering.","勤务兵犹豫了一下，继续往前走没有回答。"
"He set the plates in a pile outside the door, took the stump of pencil from his ear, and put it in his pocket.","他将餐盘摞成一堆放在门外，把铅笔从耳朵上取下来，放进了自己的口袋里。"
"He had been copying a verse for his sweetheart’s birthday card.","他刚才正在给他心上人的生日卡片上抄写一首诗。"
"He returned to finish clearing the table.","他又回来继续收拾餐桌。"
"The officer’s eyes were dancing, he had a little, eager smile.","军官的眼神跳跃着，脸上挂着一丝殷切的微笑。"
"“Why have you a piece of pencil in your ear?”","“为什么你的耳朵上夹着一支铅笔？”"
"he asked.","他问。"
"The orderly took his hands full of dishes.","勤务兵双手端满餐具。"
"His master was standing near the great green stove, a little smile on his face, his chin thrust forward.","他的上司站在绿色的大炉子附近，脸上露出淡淡的笑容，下巴向前伸着。"
"When the young soldier saw him his heart suddenly ran hot.","年轻的士兵看他时，心脏突然怦怦跳个不停。"
"He felt blind.","他觉得视线模糊了。"
"Instead of answering, he turned dazedly to the door.","他没有回答，而是晕头转向地转身朝门外走去。"
"As he was crouching to set down the dishes, he was pitched forward by a kick from behind.","他刚蹲下准备放置餐具，背后踹来的一脚让他向前打了个趔趄。"
"The pots went in a stream down the stairs, he clung to the pillar of the banisters.","盆盆罐罐一股脑地滚下了楼梯，他紧紧抱住楼梯栏杆。"
"And as he was rising he was kicked heavily again, and again, so that he clung sickly to the post for some moments.","他试图站起来，但一脚接着一脚狠狠地踹在他身上，他只能无力地一直抱着栏杆。"
"His master had gone swiftly into the room and closed the door.","他的上司已经迅速地回到屋里，关上了门。"
"The maid-servant downstairs looked up the staircase and made a mocking face at the crockery disaster.","楼下的女佣向楼梯上望了望，朝这一片狼藉的破碎餐具做了个鬼脸。"
"The officer’s heart was plunging.","军官的心跌入了谷底。"
"He poured himself a glass of wine, part of which he spilled on the floor, and gulped the remainder, leaning against the cool, green stove.","他给自己倒了一杯酒，不少都洒在了地上。一口干掉了剩在杯中酒后，靠在冰冷的绿炉子上。"
"He heard his man collecting the dishes from the stairs.","他听到他的勤务兵在楼梯上收拾餐具。"
"Pale, as if intoxicated, he waited.","他脸色苍白，就像喝醉了似的，等待着。"
"The servant entered again.","勤务兵又进来了。"
"The Captain’s heart gave a pang, as of pleasure, seeing the young fellow bewildered and uncertain on his feet, with pain.","上尉看到年轻人满脸困惑，双脚站立不稳，痛苦的样子，心中咯噔一下，似乎很高兴。"
"“Schoner!”","“舍纳！”"
"he said.","他叫道。"
"The soldier was a little slower in coming to attention.","士兵立正的动作有些迟缓。"
"“Yes, sir!”","“是，长官！”"
"The youth stood before him, with pathetic young moustache, and fine eyebrows very distinct on his forehead of dark marble.","年轻人站在他面前,小胡子看着可怜兮兮的，深色大理石似的额头上，整齐的眉毛十分醒目。"
"“I asked you a question.”","“我问了你一个问题。”"
"“Yes, sir.”","“是的，长官。”"
"The officer’s tone bit like acid.","军官的声调里略带尖酸。"
"“Why had you a pencil in your ear?”","“为什么你的耳朵上夹着一支铅笔？”"
"Again the servant’s heart ran hot, and he could not breathe.","勤务兵的心脏再次砰砰乱撞，他无法呼吸了。"
"With dark, strained eyes, he looked at the officer, as if fascinated.","他那黑色的双眼紧张地看着军官，着了迷似的。"
"And he stood there sturdily planted, unconscious.","他毫无知觉地站在那里，脚下像是生了根。"
"The withering smile came into the Captain’s eyes, and he lifted his foot.","上尉眼里的笑意逐渐消失，接着便抬起了他的一只脚。"
"“I—I forgot it—sir,” panted the soldier, his dark eyes fixed on the other man’s dancing blue ones.","“我——我忘了——长官。”士兵喘着气，黑色的双眼紧紧盯着对方那跳动着的蓝色双眼。"
"“What was it doing there?”","“放那里干什么？”"
"He saw the young man’s breast heaving as he made an effort for words.","他看到年轻人吃力地说话时，胸口一起一伏。"
"“I had been writing.”","“我在写东西。”"
"“Writing what?”","“写什么？”"
"Again the soldier looked up and down.","士兵的眼神又开始左右闪躲。"
"The officer could hear him panting.","军官可以听到他在大声喘气。"
"The smile came into the blue eyes.","蓝色双眼露出了笑意。　"
"The soldier worked his dry throat, but could not speak.","士兵清了清自己干涩的喉咙，但还是无法说出话来。"
"Suddenly the smile lit like a flame on the officer’s face, and a kick came heavily against the orderly’s thigh.","突然军官脸上的笑容像一团火焰一般，点亮了他的面部，接着便是一脚狠狠地踢在勤务兵的大腿上。"
"The youth moved a pace sideways.","年轻人往旁边晃了几步。"
"His face went dead, with two black, staring eyes.","他的脸变得死气沉沉，黑色的眼睛瞪着对方。"
"“Well?”","“怎么样？”"
"said the officer.","军官说。"
"The orderly’s mouth had gone dry, and his tongue rubbed in it as on dry brown-paper.","勤务兵的嘴巴发干，舌头在嘴里就像在干牛皮纸上摩挲一样。"
"He worked his throat.","他清了清嗓子。"
"The officer raised his foot.","军官抬起了脚。"
"The servant went stiff.","勤务兵整个变得僵硬了。"
"“Some poetry, sir,” came the crackling, unrecognizable sound of his voice.","“几句诗歌，长官。”他的声音尖刺，都无法辨别了。"
"“Poetry, what poetry?”","“诗歌？什么诗歌？”"
"asked the Captain, with a sickly smile.","上尉带着尖刻的笑容，问道。"
"Again there was the working in the throat.","又是清嗓子的声音。"
"The Captain’s heart had suddenly gone down heavily, and he stood sick and tired.","上尉的心陡然一沉，虚弱而疲惫地站着。"
"“For my girl, sir.”He heard the dry,in　human sound.","“写给我女朋友的，长官。”他听到自己声音干涩，几乎不成人声。"
"“Oh!”","“噢！”"
"he said, turning away.","他转过身说道，"
"“Clear the table.”","“把桌子收拾了。”"
"“Click!”","“咯！”"
"went the soldier’s throat; then again, “click!”","士兵喉咙里发出声音，接着又是一声“咯！”"
"and then the half-articulate:","然后他含含糊糊地说："
"“Yes, sir.”","“是，长官。”"
"The young soldier was gone, looking old, and walking heavily.","年轻的士兵离开了，像个老人一样拖着沉重的步子。"
"The officer, left alone, held himself rigid, to prevent himself from thinking.","军官独自一人，努力克制自己不去思考。"
"His instinct warned him that he must not think.","他的直觉警告他千万不能思考。"
"Deep inside him was the intense gratification of his passion, still working powerfully.","但他的内心深处却感到一阵阵强烈的满足感，源源不绝。"
"Then there was a counter-action, a horrible breaking down of something inside him, a whole agony of reaction.","继而又有一种完全相反的感觉,似乎他的身体里什么东西正在可怕地破碎着。这种反应极其痛苦。"
"He stood there for an hour motionless, a chaos of sensations, but rigid with a will to keep blank his consciousness, to prevent his mind grasping.","他失魂落魄地在原地站了一个钟头，心烦意乱。但他仍站得笔直，试图保持意识空白，好让思绪停止。"
"And he held himself so until the worst of the stress had passed, when he began to drink, drank himself to an intoxication, till he slept obliterated.","他这样克制着自己，直到挺过最压抑的一刻，接着他便开始喝酒，喝得酩酊大醉，昏睡过去，忘记一切。"
"When he woke in the morning he was shaken to the base of his nature.","当他早晨醒来时，他被最原始的自我吓到了。"
"But he had fought off the realization of what he had done.","但是他竭尽全力不去想起自己的所作所为。"
"He had prevented his mind from taking it in, had suppressed it along with his instincts, and the conscious man had nothing to do with it.","他阻止自己的大脑去回想，凭着本能努力压抑所有的念头，但是头脑清醒的人是没法办到的。"
"He felt only as after a bout of intoxication, weak, but the affair itself all dim and not to be recovered.","他只是觉得刚从酒醉中醒来，虚弱无力。整件事情本身已变得模糊，他记不起来了。"
"Of the drunkenness of his passion he successfully refused remembrance.","借着醉酒，他成功地抵制了所有记忆。"
"And when his orderly appeared with coffee, the officer assumed the same self he had had the morning before.","但是当他的勤务兵端着咖啡出现时，军官又做回了清晨之前的自己。"
"He refused the event of the past night—denied it had ever been—and was successful in his denial.","他拒绝想起昨晚发生的事情——否认曾经发生过这件事——而且否认得相当成功。"
"He had not done any such thing—not he himself.","他从没做过这种事——至少他自己没做过。"
"Whatever there might be lay at the door of a stupid, insubordinate servant.","不管怎样，都是一个愚蠢犯上的勤务兵的错。"
"The orderly had gone about in a stupor all the evening.","勤务兵一晚上都神情恍惚。"
"He drank some beer because he was parched, but not much, the alcohol made his feeling come back, and he could not bear it.","他喝了点儿啤酒，因为口舌干燥，但是没喝太多。酒精唤起了他的痛苦，使他难以忍受。"
"He was dulled, as if nine-tenths of the ordinary man in him were inert.","他变得迟钝，仿佛九成的自己都变得毫无生气了。"
"He crawled about disfigured.","他缓慢地走动着，已没有了人的样子。"
"Still, when he thought of the kicks, he went sick, and when he thought of the threat of more kicking, in the room afterwards, his heart went hot and faint, and he panted, remembering the one that had come.","可是，一想起那一顿踢打，他就感到恶心；想到今后在这房里要受到更多踢打的威胁，他的心脏噗噗直跳，并感到一阵眩晕，他喘着粗气，想起了之前的遭遇。"
"He had been forced to say, “For my girl.”","他被逼着说出：“给我的女朋友。”"
"He was much too done even to want to cry.","他太累了，甚至连想哭的力气都没有。"
"His mouth hung slightly open, like an idiot’s.","他的嘴像个白痴一样微张着。"
"He felt vacant, and wasted.","他感到一片空白，全身无力。"
"So, he wandered at his work, painfully, and very slowly and clumsily, fumbling blindly with the brushes, and finding it difficult, when he sat down, to summon the energy to move again.","于是，他随意地应付着手头工作，痛苦、迟缓、笨拙而盲目地摆弄着刷子，他发现自己一坐下去，就再也没有气力挪动了。"
"His limbs, his jaw, were slack and nerveless.","他的四肢、下巴都松散无力了。"
"But he was very tired.","可他实在是太疲倦了。"
"He got to bed at last, and slept inert, relaxed, in a sleep that was rather stupor than slumber, a dead night of stupefaction shot through with gleams of anguish.","终于他上床了，毫无知觉地、放松地睡着了，与其说是睡着了还不如说是昏死了过去，于是他带着几分怨恨，迷迷糊糊地度过了死寂的一夜。"
"In the morning were the manoeuvres.","一大早便是演习。"
"But he woke even before the bugle sounded.","可他却在军号吹响前就醒了。"
"The painful ache in his chest, the dryness of his throat, the awful steady feeling of misery made his eyes come awake and dreary at once.","他疼痛的胸口、干涩的喉咙，还有无休止的痛苦迫使他立即睁开双眼，满眼沮丧。"
"He knew, without thinking, what had happened.","他无需多想，就知道发生了什么事。"
"And he knew that the day had come again, when he must go on with his round.","他还知道天又亮了，他必须继续他的工作了。"
"The last bit of darkness was being pushed out of the room.","最后的一道黑暗也被挤出了房间。"
"He would have to move his inert body and go on.","他不得不挪动自己无力的身体干活去。"
"He was so young, and had known so little trouble, that he was bewildered.","他很年轻，没经历过多少烦恼，因此这使他困惑。"
"He only wished it would stay night, so that he could lie still, covered up by the darkness.","他多希望夜晚一直持续下去,那样他就可以直挺挺地躺着，让黑暗将自己包裹起来。"
"And yet nothing would prevent the day from coming, nothing would save him from having to get up and saddle the Captain’s horse, and make the Captain’s coffee.","然而，没什么能够阻止白天来临，他必须起床去给上尉的坐骑上鞍，给上尉煮咖啡。"
"It was there, inevitable.","任务等着他，无法逃避。"
"And then, he thought, it was impossible.","继而，他想到，那是不可能的。"
"Yet they would not leave him free.","他们不会让他闲着。"
"He must go and take the coffee to the Captain.","他必须给上尉端咖啡去了。"
"He was too stunned to understand it.","他太惊愕了，对此无法理解。"
"He only knew it was inevitable—inevitable, however long he lay inert.","他仅仅知道他无法逃避——无论他死气沉沉地躺多久，都无法逃避。"
"At last, after heaving at himself, for he seemed to be a mass of inertia, he got up.","终于，一番自我拉扯之后，他起来了，看上去完全失去了生气。"
"But he had to force every one of his movements from behind, with his will.","但是，他必须依靠自己的意志来强迫自己做出每个动作。"
"He felt lost, and dazed, and helpless.","他茫然若失，晕眩无助。"
"Then he clutched hold of the bed, the pain was so keen.","他紧紧抓住床沿，因为实在是太疼了。"
"And looking at his thighs, he saw the darker bruises on his swarthy flesh and he knew that, if he pressed one of his fingers on one of the bruises, he should faint.","勤务兵看着自己的大腿，发现他那黝黑的皮肤上有几处深色的瘀伤。他知道，如果用手指按在其中一处，他肯定会昏过去。"
"But he did not want to faint—he did not want anybody to know.","但是他不想昏过去——他也不希望任何人知道。"
"No one should ever know.","其他人不应该知道。"
"It was between him and the Captain.","那是他和上尉两人之间的事。"
"There were only the two people in the world now—himself and the Captain.","现在世界上只有两个人——他和上尉。"
"Slowly, economically, he got dressed and forced himself to walk.","他缓慢而又简练地穿好衣服，并迫使自己行走。"
"Everything was obscure, except just what he had his hands on.","任何事都显得模糊不清，除了他手头上的事情以外。"
"But he managed to get through his work.","但他还是努力完成了工作。"
"The very pain revived his dull senses.","疼痛使他麻痹的感官恢复了知觉。"
"The worst remained yet.","但最坏的还在后面。"
"He took the tray and went up to the Captain’s room.","他托着盘子来到楼上上尉的房间。"
"The officer, pale and heavy, sat at the table.","军官脸色苍白沉重，坐在桌旁。"
"The orderly, as he saluted, felt himself put out of existence.","勤务兵敬礼时，感觉自己消失了。"
"He stood still for a moment submitting to his own nullification—then he gathered himself, seemed to regain himself, and then the Captain began to grow vague, unreal, and the younger soldier’s heart beat up.","他一动不动地站了良久，仿佛真的消失了似的——接着他又有了精神，像是恢复了知觉，然后上尉开始变得模糊、失真了，年轻士兵的心剧烈地跳动起来。"
"He clung to this situation—that the Captain did not exist—so that he himself might live.","他坚持想着这一场景——上尉并不存在——这样他自己才能活着。"
"But when he saw his officer’s hand tremble as he took the coffee, he felt everything falling shattered.","但是当他看到上尉端起咖啡时抖动的手，他感到一切都分崩离析了。"
"And he went away, feeling as if he himself were coming to pieces, disintegrated.","他走开，觉得自己瓦解成了碎片。"
"And when the Captain was there on horseback, giving orders, while he himself stood, with rifle and knapsack, sick with pain, he felt as if he must shut his eyes—as if he must shut his eyes on everything.","当上尉骑在马背上发号施令，他背着来复枪和背包站立着，疼痛难忍时，他觉得自己似乎必须闭上双眼——似乎他必须什么都不看。"
"It was only the long agony of marching with a parched throat that filled him with one single, sleep-heavy intention: to save himself.","口干舌燥地行军带来的长时间的痛苦，使他脑海中唯有一个困倦的念头：拯救自己。"

"Chapter II","第二章"
"He was getting used even to his parched throat.","他甚至逐渐习惯喉咙干渴了。"
"That the snowy peaks were radiant among the sky, that the whity-green glacier-river twisted through its pale shoals, in the valley below, seemed almost supernatural.","雪峰在天空下闪着光辉，下面的河谷中，淡绿色的冰河蜿蜒流过苍白的浅滩，宛若梦境一般。"
"But he was going mad with fever and thirst.","但是，他已经被发烧和口渴折磨得快要发疯了。"
"He plodded on uncomplaining.","他毫无怨言地拖着沉重的步子向前走着。"
"He did not want to speak, not to anybody.","他不想说话，不想跟任何人说话。"
"There were two gulls, like flakes of water and snow, over the river.","两只海鸥，仿佛水花和雪片一般，盘旋在河流之上。"
"The scent of green rye soaked in sunshine came like a sickness.","嫩绿的黑麦，在阳光的照耀下，散发出令人作呕的气味。"
"And the march continued, monotonously, almost like a bad sleep.","部队继续前进，单调无味，就像一场没睡安稳的觉。"
"At the next farm-house, which stood low and broad near the high road, tubs of water had been put out.","前方大路旁有一栋低矮宽敞的农舍，外面摆放着几桶水。"
"The soldiers clustered round to drink.","士兵们围过去喝水。"
"They took off their helmets, and the steam mounted from their wet hair.","他们一脱掉头盔，热气便从湿漉漉的头发上冒了起来。"
"The Captain sat on horseback, watching.","上尉骑在马背上，注视着。"
"He needed to see his orderly.","他需要看到他的勤务兵。"
"His helmet threw a dark shadow over his light, fierce eyes, but his moustache and mouth and chin were distinct in the sunshine.","他的头盔在他那清澈、锋锐的眼睛上投下了黑影，但是胡子、嘴巴，还有下巴却醒目地暴露在阳光下。"
"The orderly must move under the presence of the figure of the horseman.","勤务兵必须在马背上的身影面前走动。"
"It was not that he was afraid, or cowed.","他并不是害怕，或是懦弱。"
"It was as if he was disembowelled, made empty, like an empty shell.","而是他感觉自己被开膛破肚，五脏六腑被掏空，像一个空壳。"
"He felt himself as nothing, a shadow creeping under the sunshine.","他觉得自己什么都不是，不过是匍匐在阳光下的影子。"
"And, thirsty as he was, he could scarcely drink, feeling the Captain near him.","而且，尽管他十分口渴，他也不能喝水，因为他觉得上尉就在他旁边。"
"He would not take off his helmet to wipe his wet hair.","他也不能脱掉头盔擦一擦湿漉漉的头发。"
"He wanted to stay in shadow, not to be forced into consciousness.","他想要一直做影子，不想被迫恢复意识。"
"Starting, he saw the light heel of the officer prick the belly of the horse; the Captain cantered away, and he himself could relapse into vacancy.","在一阵惊吓中，他看见军官用靴底戳了一下马肚子，上尉骑着马慢悠悠地离开了，于是他又陷入了之前的放空状态。"
"Nothing, however, could give him back his living place in the hot, bright morning.","然而，在这个炎热、阳光刺眼的清晨，没什么能够交还他生存的位置。"
"He felt like a gap among it all.","他感觉有一道鸿沟横在那里。"
"Whereas the Captain was prouder, overriding.","而上尉却更加傲慢，凌驾于一切之上。"
"A hot flash went through the young servant’s body.","一股热气从年轻仆人的体内流过。"
"The Captain was firmer and prouder with life, he himself was empty as a shadow.","上尉的生命充满活力，也愈发坚实、愈发傲慢，而他自己却空得像个影子。"
"Again the flash went through him, dazing him out.","热流再次涌遍他的全身，他几乎昏了过去。"
"But his heart ran a little firmer.","但是他的内心比之前更坚定些了。"
"The company turned up the hill, to make a loop for the return.","部队转而向山上爬去，打算绕个圈回来。"
"Below, from among the trees, the farm-bell clanged.","在山下，树林之间响起了农舍的钟声。"
"He saw the labourers, mowing barefoot at the thick grass, leave off their work and go downhill, their scythes hanging over their shoulders, like long, bright claws curving down behind them.","他看到赤着脚在草丛中割草的农民收工往山下走。他们的镰刀搭在肩上，像是长长的、明晃晃的爪子弯在背上。"
"They seemed like dream-people, as if they had no relation to himself.","他们像是梦中人，似乎都与他毫无关系。"
"He felt as in a blackish dream: as if all the other things were there and had form, but he himself was only a consciousness, a gap that could think and perceive.","他感觉自己置身于一场黑暗的梦中：仿佛其他所有的一切都存在，并且都是有形的，而他自己只是一种意识，一个可以思考和感知外界的鸿沟。"
"The soldiers were tramping silently up the glaring hillside.","士兵们迈着沉重的步伐，默默地沿着晃眼的山路往上爬。"
"Gradually his head began to revolve, slowly, rhythmically.","渐渐地，他的脑袋开始转动，慢悠悠地，还带着节奏。"
"Sometimes it was dark before his eyes, as if he saw this world through a smoked glass, frail shadows and unreal.","有时，他觉得眼前一片黑暗，仿佛他是在透过一副被烟熏过的眼镜看世界，一切都蒙在阴影中，毫无真实感。"
"It gave him a pain in his head to walk.","走路都会让他头疼不已。"
"The air was too scented, it gave no breath.","空气中气味浓重，让人无法呼吸。"
"All the lush greenstuff seemed to be issuing its sap, till the air was deathly, sickly with the smell of greenness.","所有繁茂的绿色植物仿佛都渗着汁液，空气中弥漫着令人窒息作呕的绿色气味。"
"There was the perfume of clover, like pure honey and bees.","三叶草散发着香气，像是纯净的蜂蜜和蜜蜂的味道。"
"Then there grew a faint acrid tang—they were near the beeches; and then a queer clattering noise, and a suffocating, hideous smell; they were passing a flock of sheep, a shepherd in a black smock, holding his crook.","接着，有一股微弱的、刺鼻的味道——他们到了山毛榉树丛的附近；随后传来一阵奇特的得得声和一阵令人窒息的、恶心的臭味。原来他们正从一群绵羊身边经过，一个穿着黑色罩衫的牧羊人，拿着他的手杖赶着羊群。"
"Why should the sheep huddle together under this fierce sun?","为什么羊群要在如此强烈的日光下要挤在一起？"
"He felt that the shepherd would not see him, though he could see the shepherd.","他觉得牧羊人看不到他，尽管他可以看到牧羊人。"
"At last there was the halt.","终于，部队停下了。"
"They stacked rifles in a conical stack, put down their kit in a scattered circle around it, and dispersed a little, sitting on a small knoll high on the hillside.","大家把来复枪架成一个圆锥形，又把随身装备围着枪散乱地摆成一圈，然后他们稍微散开，坐在山坡高处的一个小土墩上。"
"The chatter began.","他们开始谈天说地。"
"The soldiers were steaming with heat, but were lively.","士兵们虽然浑身冒着热气，但还是聊得很起劲。"
"He sat still, seeing the blue mountains rising upon the land, twenty kilometres away.","他直挺挺地坐着，盯着20公里开外拔地而起的苍翠山脉。"
"There was a blue fold in the ranges, then out of that, at the foot, the broad, pale bed of the river, stretches of whity-green water between pinkish-grey shoals among the dark pine woods.","绵延起伏的山岭间有一个苍翠的山谷，山脚下是宽阔的、灰蒙蒙的河床。墨绿的松林里，碧绿的河水蜿蜒地穿梭在灰红色的浅滩之间。"
"There it was, spread out a long way off.","就这样，它向远方流去。"
"And it seemed to come downhill, the river.","河水似乎是从山上流下的。"
"There was a raft being steered, a mile away.","一英里之外，有人摇着一只木筏。"
"It was a strange country.","这真是一个奇怪的村子。"
"Nearer, a red-roofed, broad farm with white base and square dots of windows crouched beside the wall of beech foliage on the wood’s edge.","稍近些的地方，坐落着一座宽敞的农舍，红顶白底，还有几个方格的窗户。一旁的树林边是一堵用山毛榉树叶围成的墙。"
"There were long strips of rye and clover and pale green corn.","那里还有几道狭长的黑麦田、三叶草地和苍绿色的玉米地。"
"And just at his feet, below the knoll, was a darkish bog, where globe flowers stood breathless still on their slim stalks.","就在他脚边的土墩下面，有一个黑色的泥沼，金莲花在那里毫无生机地耷拉在它们纤细的茎秆上。"
"And some of the pale gold bubbles were burst, and a broken fragment hung in the air.","其中个别暗淡的金色小球已经绽开，一个破裂的花苞悬在空中。"
"He thought he was going to sleep.","他想他马上就要睡着了。"
"Suddenly something moved into this coloured mirage before his eyes.","突然，什么东西闯入了他眼前色彩斑斓的幻象中。"
"The Captain, a small, light-blue and scarlet figure, was trotting evenly between the strips of corn, along the level brow of the hill.","上尉，一个矮小的、浅蓝与鲜红相间的身影，正平稳地骑着马，在狭长的玉米地之间，沿着平坦的小山顶小跑过来。"
"And the man making flag-signals was coming on.","打旗语的士兵跟在后面。"
"Proud and sure moved the horseman’s figure, the quick, bright thing, in which was concentrated all the light of this morning, which for the rest lay a fragile, shining shadow.","马背上的身影傲慢且坚定地移动着，不仅迅速，还闪闪发光，清晨所有的光线都聚集在了他身上，留给其他人的只有一个微弱而闪耀的影子。"
"Submissive, apathetic, the young soldier sat and stared.","年轻士兵顺从又默然地坐在那里望着。"
"But as the horse slowed to a walk, coming up the last steep path, the great flash flared over the body and soul of the orderly.","但是当那匹马慢下来，爬上最后一那条险峻的小路时，一股炽热的怒火穿过勤务兵的身体和心灵。"
"He sat waiting.","他坐在那里等待着。"
"The back of his head felt as if it were weighted with a heavy piece of fire.","他的脑袋后面仿佛有一大团沉重的火焰。"
"He did not want to eat.","他不想吃东西。"
"His hands trembled slightly as he moved them.","他双手一动就微微颤抖。"
"Meanwhile the officer on horseback was approaching slowly and proudly.","另一边，骑在马背上傲慢的军官正在慢慢靠近。"
"The tension grew in the orderly’s soul.","勤务兵心里越来越紧张。"
"Then again, seeing the Captain ease himself on the saddle, the flash blazed through him.","看到上尉在马鞍上怡然自得的样子，怒火再次掠过他的全身。"
"The Captain looked at the patch of light blue and scarlet, and dark heads, scattered closely on the hillside.","上尉望着山腰上那片浅蓝与鲜红相间的颜色，那些密密麻麻四下散开的黑脑袋。"
"It pleased him.","这让他很高兴。"
"The command pleased him.","发号施令让他很高兴。"
"And he was feeling proud.","他感到骄傲。"
"His orderly was among them in common subjection.","他的勤务兵也在那一群顺从的人之中。"
"The officer rose a little on his stirrups to look.","军官踩着马镫抬起身看了看。"
"The young soldier sat with averted, dumb face.","年轻士兵的脸扭向一边，满脸麻木。"
"The Captain relaxed on his seat.","上尉放松地坐下。"
"His slim-legged, beautiful horse, brown as a beech nut, walked proudly uphill.","他那匹四肢修长、身形优美的坐骑，呈山毛榉坚果的棕色，傲慢地向山上走去。"
"The Captain passed into the zone of the company’s atmosphere: a hot smell of men, of sweat, of leather.","上尉走进了部队气息浓重的区域：闻到一股男人身上的气味、汗水和皮革味。"
"He knew it very well.","他对这些都十分熟悉。"
"After a word with the lieutenant, he went a few paces higher, and sat there, a dominant figure, his sweat-marked horse swishing its tail, while he looked down on his men, on his orderly, a nonentity among the crowd.","跟中尉吩咐几句后，他又往高处前进了几步才坐下，一副君临天下的架势。他那匹沁着汗水的马嗖嗖地甩着尾巴，他则俯视着他的部下们，还有他的勤务兵，人群中一个无足轻重的家伙。"
"The young soldier’s heart was like fire in his chest, and he breathed with difficulty.","年轻士兵的胸中仿佛有一团火，他艰难地呼吸着。"
"The officer, looking downhill, saw three of the young soldiers, two pails of water between them, staggering across a sunny green field.","军官朝山下望去，见有三个年轻士兵抬着两桶水，左摇右摆地穿过阳光照耀着的绿色田地。"
"A table had been set up under a tree, and there the slim lieutenant stood, importantly busy.","一张桌子已经在一棵树下支起，瘦弱的中尉站在那里忙着什么重要的事情。"
"Then the Captain summoned himself to an act of courage.","上尉鼓起了勇气。"
"He called his orderly.","他叫了他的勤务兵。"
"The flame leapt into the young soldier’s throat as he heard the command, and he rose blindly, stifled.","年轻的士兵一听到这声命令，火焰立刻窜进了他的喉咙。他茫然地起身，僵硬地站在那里。"
"He saluted, standing below the officer.","他敬过礼，站在军官下面。"
"He did not look up.","他没有抬头看。"
"But there was the flicker in the Captain’s voice.","但是上尉的声音跳跃不定。"
"“Go to the inn and fetch me...”","“到客店里给我拿……”"
"the officer gave his commands.","军官命令道。"
"“Quick!”","“快！”"
"he added.","他又说道。"
"At the last word, the heart of the servant leapt with a flash, and he felt the strength come over his body.","听到最后一个字时，勤务兵的心里窜起一团火，他觉得身体里涌起了一股力量。"
"But he turned in mechanical obedience, and set off at a heavy run downhill, looking almost like a bear, his trousers bagging over his military boots.","但他还是机械地服从了，转过身，迈着沉重的步子向山下跑去，裤子似布袋版在军靴筒上鼓起，看起来像一只大狗熊。"
"And the officer watched this blind, plunging run all the way.","军官看着他愣头愣脑地一路往下冲。"
"But it was only the outside of the orderly’s body that was obeying so humbly and mechanically.","但这样谦卑、机械地顺从只是勤务兵的表面而已。"
"Inside had gradually accumulated a core into which all the energy of that young life was compact and concentrated.","在他的身体里面逐渐聚集了一股力量，那个年轻生命中所有的能量都浓缩汇聚在了一起。"
"He executed his commission, and plodded quickly back uphill.","他执行完自己的任务，又迈着沉重的步伐迅速回到山上。"
"There was a pain in his head, as he walked, that made him twist his features unknowingly.","他走在路上，感到一阵头痛，这让他的脸不自觉地拧在了一起。"
"But hard there in the centre of his chest was himself, himself, firm, and not to be plucked to pieces.","但是在他的胸膛中有一处坚不可摧的地方，那就是他自己，他自己坚强，绝不能被撕扯成碎片。"
"The Captain had gone up into the wood.","上尉已经到树林里去了。"
"The orderly plodded through the hot, powerfully smelling zone of the company’s atmosphere.","勤务兵缓慢地从热烘烘的充满强烈气味的士兵休息区走过。"
"He had a curious mass of energy inside him now.","现在他的身体里有一股奇特的能量。"
"The Captain was less real than himself.","上尉反而没有他自己那么真实了。"
"He approached the green entrance to the wood.","他来到树林的绿色入口。"
"There, in the half-shade, he saw the horse standing, the sunshine and the flickering shadow of leaves dancing over his brown body.","透过斑驳的树阴，他看见上尉的马站在那里，阳光和树叶斑驳的影子在那棕色的躯体上舞动着。"
"There was a clearing where timber had lately been felled.","新砍伐过的地方有块空地。"
"Here, in the gold-green shade beside the brilliant cup of sunshine, stood two figures, blue and pink, the bits of pink showing out plainly.","这里，照射过来的灿烂阳光呈现出杯子的形状。旁边金色和绿色交织的阴影下，站着两个人，都穿着蓝色与粉色相间的军服，那粉色尤其清晰可见。"
"The Captain was talking to his lieutenant.","上尉正在和他的中尉讲话。"
"The orderly stood on the edge of the bright clearing, where great trunks of trees, stripped and glistening, lay stretched like naked, brown-skinned bodies.","勤务兵站在明亮的空地边缘，几个粗大的树干躺在地上，树皮已被剥掉，闪闪发亮，好像一些赤裸的、深棕色的尸体。"
"Chips of wood littered the trampled floor, like splashed light, and the bases of the felled trees stood here and there, with their raw, level tops.","被人踩踏过的地上撒满了木屑，就像斑驳的阳光。到处都是树木砍伐后留下的树墩，露出崭新、齐整的伐痕。"
"Beyond was the brilliant, sunlit green of a beech.","旁边则是一棵在阳光下闪着光辉的绿色山毛榉。"
"“Then I will ride forward,” the orderly heard his Captain say.","“那我就往前骑了。”勤务兵听见上尉说。"
"The lieutenant saluted and strode away.","中尉敬了个礼，迈着大步走开了。"
"He himself went forward.","勤务兵向前走去。"
"A hot flash passed through his belly, as he tramped towards his officer.","他踏着步走向他的军官时，一股热腾的火焰贯穿了他的腹部。"
"The Captain watched the rather heavy figure of the young soldier stumble forward, and his veins, too, ran hot.","上尉瞧着年轻士兵拖着沉重的身躯一摇一摆地向自己走来，自己的血管也灼烧起来。"
"This was to be man to man between them.","接下来他们俩之间将是男人与男人的事了。"
"He yielded before the solid, stumbling figure with bent head.","他向面前这个结实的、耷拉着脑袋、跌跌撞撞的人屈服了。"
"The orderly stooped and put the food on a level-sawn tree-base.","勤务兵弯下腰，把食物摆在一个砍伐平整的树墩上。"
"The Captain watched the glistening, sun-inflamed, naked hands.","上尉盯着这双闪着光、被太阳晒伤的赤裸的手。"
"He wanted to speak to the young soldier, but could not.","他想跟年轻士兵说话，但开不了口。"
"The servant propped a bottle against his thigh, pressed open the cork, and poured out the beer into the mug.","勤务兵将一瓶酒撑在他的大腿上，用力打开了瓶盖，接着把啤酒倒进了杯子里。"
"He kept his head bent.","他一直低着头。"
"The Captain accepted the mug.","上尉接过杯子。"
"“Hot!”","“真热啊！”"
"he said, as if amiably.","他故作亲切地说。"
"The flame sprang out of the orderly’s heart, nearly suffocating him.","火焰窜上了勤务兵的心头，快要让他窒息了。"
"“Yes, sir,” he replied, between shut teeth.","“是，长官。”他从牙缝中挤出了这句话。"
"And he heard the sound of the Captain’s drinking, and he clenched his fists, such a strong torment came into his wrists.","接着他听到上尉喝酒的声音，他紧握双拳，一阵强烈的冲动折磨着他的双腕。"
"Then came the faint clang of the closing pot-lid.","然后传出微弱的盖杯盖的声音。"
"He looked up.","他抬起头。"
"The Captain was watching him.","上尉正盯着他。"
"He glanced swiftly away.","他迅速地将视线挪向一旁。"
"Then he saw the officer stoop and take a piece of bread from the tree-base.","他又看到军官弯腰从树墩上拿起一块面包。"
"Again the flash of flame went through the young soldier, seeing the stiff body stoop beneath him, and his hands jerked.","看到弯在面前这挺直的身躯，炽热的火焰再次燃遍年轻士兵全身，继而缩回双手。"
"He looked away.","他瞧向别处。"
"He could feel the officer was nervous.","他可以感觉到军官很紧张。"
"The bread fell as it was being broken.","面包在被剥开时掉了下来。"
"The officer ate the other piece.","军官吃了另外一块。"
"The two men stood tense and still, the master laboriously chewing his bread, the servant staring with averted face, his fist clenched.","两个男人僵持地站在那里，上司吃力地嚼着面包，勤务兵侧着脸，双目圆瞪，紧握拳头。"
"Then the young soldier started.","年轻的士兵怔了一下。"
"The officer had pressed open the lid of the mug again.","军官又把杯盖打开了。"
"The orderly watched the lid of the mug, and the white hand that clenched the handle, as if he were fascinated.","勤务兵盯着杯盖和握着杯子把的白皙的手，像着了迷似的。"
"It was raised.","杯子被举了起来。"
"The youth followed it with his eyes.","年轻人的眼神也跟着抬了起来。"
"And then he saw the thin, strong throat of the elder man moving up and down as he drank, the strong jaw working.","接着他看见年长者细小却有力的喉结在喝酒时一上一下，坚挺的下巴不停地动着。"
"And the instinct which had been jerking at the young man’s wrists suddenly jerked free.","年轻人手腕中跳跃着的本能在一瞬间释放出来了。"
"He jumped, feeling as if it were rent in two by a strong flame.","他跳了起来，感觉好像被一股炽烈的火焰撕扯成了两半。"
"The spur of the officer caught in a tree-root, he went down backwards with a crash, the middle of his back thudding sickeningly against a sharp-edged tree-base, the pot flying away.","军官靴子上的马刺在一截树根上绊了一下，他哐嘡一下向后摔去，背心狠狠地撞在一个边缘尖锐的树墩上，杯子飞了出去。"
"And in a second the orderly, with serious, earnest young face, and underlip between his teeth, had got his knee in the officer’s chest and was pressing the chin backward over the farther edge of the tree-stump, pressing, with all his heart behind in a passion of relief, the tension of his wrists exquisite with relief.","刹那间，勤务兵年轻的脸庞变得严肃而坚决。他紧咬着下嘴唇，膝盖顶住军官的胸口，把军官的下巴向后掰，并使劲地往树墩另一端按下去。他用力按着，内心一阵释然，紧张的手腕也放松了。"
"And with the base of his palms he shoved at the chin, with all his might.","他使出全身力气，使劲地用手掌底部把军官的下颚往后推。"
"And it was pleasant, too, to have that chin, that hard jaw already slightly rough with beard, in his hands.","用手抓着那长着胡子茬儿的坚挺的下巴，也令他感到一阵愉悦。"
"He did not relax one hair’s breadth, but, all the force of all his blood exulting in his thrust, he shoved back the head of the other man, till there was a little “cluck” and a crunching sensation.","但是他没有放松片刻，内心的狂喜汇聚成一股力量。他用力将军官的脑袋往后推，直到听见微微的一声“咯噔”，还有一种什么东西给碾碎的感觉。"
"Then he felt as if his head went to vapour.","接着他觉得他的思绪像水一样蒸发掉了。"
"Heavy convulsions shook the body of the officer, frightening and horrifying the young soldier.","军官的身体剧烈地抽搐着，年轻士兵吓坏了。"
"Yet it pleased him, too, to repress them.","但是，压制住这种抽搐，又使他感到高兴。"
"It pleased him to keep his hands pressing back the chin, to feel the chest of the other man yield in expiration to the weight of his strong, young knees, to feel the hard twitchings of the prostrate body jerking his own whole frame, which was pressed down on it.","用双手紧紧将军官的下巴往后按，感受到军官的胸膛在他年轻力壮的膝盖的重压下吐出最后一口气，感到倒在地上的那个剧烈抽搐的身体用力挣扎压在它上面的那个身体，这些都让他感到愉悦。"
"But it went still.","可是它不动了。"
"He could look into the nostrils of the other man, the eyes he could scarcely see.","他可以看见对方的鼻孔，但是无法看清双眼。"
"How curiously the mouth was pushed out, exaggerating the full lips, and the moustache bristling up from them.","上尉的嘴奇特地撅了出来，嘴唇肿胀，胡子硬邦邦地竖在上面，看着很夸张。"
"Then, with a start, he noticed the nostrils gradually filled with blood.","让他吓了一跳的是，军官的鼻孔里充满了血。"
"The red brimmed, hesitated, ran over, and went in a thin trickle down the face to the eyes.","红色的血渗到了鼻孔周围，过了一会儿便流了出来，形成了一小缕细流顺着脸庞流到了眼里。"
"It shocked and distressed him.","他又惊又怕。"
"Slowly, he got up.","慢慢地，他站了起来。"
"The body twitched and sprawled there, inert.","军官的身体颤抖着，四仰八叉地躺在地上，不动弹了。"
"He stood and looked at it in silence.","他站在那里，静静地瞧着它。"
"It was a pity IT was broken.","真遗憾，它完了。"
"It represented more than the thing which had kicked and bullied him.","它代表的不仅是那个曾经踢过他、欺辱过他的东西。"
"He was afraid to look at the eyes.","他不敢去看那双眼睛。"
"They were hideous now, only the whites showing, and the blood running to them.","它们现在看上去很可怕，只能看见白色的眼仁，还有流在上面的血。"
"The face of the orderly was drawn with horror at the sight.","看到这场景，勤务兵的脸因恐惧而变得憔悴。"
"Well, it was so.","唉，已经这样了。"
"In his heart he was satisfied.","但他的内心感到满足。"
"He had hated the face of the Captain.","他一直都对上尉的脸孔怀恨在心。"
"It was extinguished now.","现在，仇恨消失了。"
"There was a heavy relief in the orderly’s soul.","勤务兵在心灵深处长长舒了一口气。"
"That was as it should be.","本就应当如此。"
"But he could not bear to see the long, military body lying broken over the tree-base, the fine fingers crisped.","但是他无法忍受去瞧那具修长的、身着军装的尸体躺在树墩上面，纤细的手指还蜷曲着。"
"He wanted to hide it away.","他想把尸体藏起来。"
"Quickly, busily, he gathered it up and pushed it under the felled tree-trunks, which rested their beautiful, smooth length either end on logs.","他迅速又匆忙地将尸体搬起来，推到倒在地上的树干下面。整齐又光滑的树干两头搭在原木上。"
"The face was horrible with blood.","军官满脸是血，十分恐怖。"
"He covered it with the helmet.","他用头盔把它挡了起来。"
"Then he pushed the limbs straight and decent, and brushed the dead leaves off the fine cloth of the uniform.","接着他将军官的四肢摆端正，拂掉落在质地精良的军装上的枯叶。"
"So, it lay quite still in the shadow under there.","于是，军官的尸体在树干之间的阴影下笔直地躺着了。"
"A little strip of sunshine ran along the breast, from a chink between the logs.","一小缕阳光透过原木之间的缝隙，照在了军官的胸口。"
"The orderly sat by it for a few moments.","勤务兵在跟前坐了半晌。"
"Here his own life also ended.","在此，他自己的生命也完结了。"
"Then, through his daze, he heard the lieutenant, in a loud voice, explaining to the men outside the wood, that they were to suppose the bridge on the river below was held by the enemy.","迷糊之中，他听见中尉大声地在向树林外的士兵解释说，假设下面河道上的桥梁被敌军占据。"
"Now they were to march to the attack in such and such a manner.","现在他们打算以怎样怎样的方式进攻。"
"The lieutenant had no gift of expression.","中尉并没有表达的天赋。"
"The orderly, listening from habit, got muddled.","勤务兵习惯性地听着，但是听糊涂了。"
"And when the lieutenant began it all again he ceased to hear.","中尉开始重复一遍时，他不再听了。"
"He knew he must go.","他知道自己必须离开。"
"He stood up.","他站起来。"
"It surprised him that the leaves were glittering in the sun, and the chips of wood reflecting white from the ground.","树叶在太阳下闪闪发亮，地面的木屑闪着白光，这让他吃了一惊。"
"For him a change had come over the world.","对他来说，世界已经发生了变化。"
"But for the rest it had not—all seemed the same.","但是对于其他人来说毫无变化——一切如旧。"
"Only he had left it.","只有他离开了那个世界。"
"And he could not go back.","而且无法回头了。"
"It was his duty to return with the beer-pot and the bottle.","归还酒杯和酒瓶是他的任务。"
"He could not.","他做不到了。"
"He had left all that.","他已离开了这一切。"
"The lieutenant was still hoarsely explaining.","中尉还在扯着嗓子解释着。"
"He must go, or they would overtake him.","他必须离开，否则他们会追上他的。"
"And he could not bear contact with anyone now.","现在他无法忍受与任何人接触。"
"He drew his fingers over his eyes, trying to find out where he was.","他用手遮在眼睛上面，试图弄明白自己身在何处。"
"Then he turned away.","接着便转身走开了。"
"He saw the horse standing in the path.","他看见军官的马停在路上。"
"He went up to it and mounted.","他走过去，跨上马。"
"It hurt him to sit in the saddle.","坐在马鞍上让他感到疼痛。"
"The pain of keeping his seat occupied him as they cantered through the wood.","他们在林中慢跑的时候，这疼痛一直伴随着他。"
"He would not have minded anything, but he could not get away from the sense of being divided from the others.","他不该想任何事，但是又无法摆脱与其他人划清界限的感觉。"
"The path led out of the trees.","道路一直通向树林外。"
"On the edge of the wood he pulled up and stood watching.","在树林边，他勒住马，停下来环顾四周。"
"There in the spacious sunshine of the valley soldiers were moving in a little swarm.","宽阔的山谷里阳光普照，士兵们排成数个小队前进着。"
"Every now and then, a man harrowing on a strip of fallow shouted to his oxen, at the turn.","在一块细长的休耕地上，一个男人正在耕田，拐弯时偶尔会朝牛吆喝几声。"
"The village and the white-towered church was small in the sunshine.","村庄和白色塔顶的教堂，在阳光下显得格外渺小。"
"And he no longer belonged to it—he sat there, beyond, like a man outside in the dark.","他已不再属于那里了——他坐在那里，超然于世，仿佛一个置身黑暗之中的人。"
"He had gone out from everyday life into the unknown, and he could not, he even did not want to go back.","他已摆脱了日常生活，来到了未知的世界。他无法，也不愿意再回去。"
"Turning from the sun-blazing valley, he rode deep into the wood.","他转身背对刺眼阳光笼罩着的山谷，往树林深处骑去。"
"Tree-trunks, like people standing grey and still, took no notice as he went.","一根根树干像灰暗、僵直的人一样站着，对骑马经过的他毫不在意。"
"A doe, herself a moving bit of sunshine and shadow, went running through the flecked shade.","一头母鹿，身披阳光和树阴，从斑驳的树影之间一闪而过。"
"There were bright green rents in the foliage.","树叶之间透出翠绿色的缝隙。"
"Then it was all pine wood, dark and cool.","其他的便是深绿色的、冷峻的松树了。"
"And he was sick with pain, he had an intolerable great pulse in his head, and he was sick.","身上的疼痛使他难受，脑袋剧烈地抽动着，让他无法忍受，他病了。"
"He had never been ill in his life.","他从出生到现在还从没病过。"
"He felt lost, quite dazed with all this.","他感觉变迷糊了，一切都让他晕眩恍惚。"
"Trying to get down from the horse, he fell, astonished at the pain and his lack of balance.","他试图从马上下来，但是跌在了地上，疼痛和失去平衡让他颇为吃惊。"
"The horse shifted uneasily.","马儿不安地转向一旁。"
"He jerked its bridle and sent it cantering jerkily away.","他猛地扯了下缰绳，马儿在惊吓中慢步跑开了。"
"It was his last connection with the rest of things.","那是他与其他事物最后的联系。"
"But he only wanted to lie down and not be disturbed.","可他只想躺着，不被打扰。"
"Stumbling through the trees, he came on a quiet place where beeches and pine trees grew on a slope.","他跌跌撞撞地在树林中穿梭，来到一处安静的大坡，上面长着山毛榉和松树。"
"Immediately he had lain down and closed his eyes, his consciousness went racing on without him.","他迅速躺下闭上眼睛，他的意识还在激烈的搏斗，但是他自己已经浑然不知了。"
"A big pulse of sickness beat in him as if it throbbed through the whole earth.","一阵强烈的痛苦袭击着他，好像整个地球都颤动了。"
"He was burning with dry heat.","他又干又热，浑身都烧了起来。"
"But he was too busy, too tearingly active in the incoherent race of delirium to observe.","不过他太忙乱，一直极其痛苦地在昏迷狂乱中折腾，根本没有注意到。"

"Chapter III","第三章"
"He came to with a start.","一惊之下，他醒了过来。"
"His mouth was dry and hard, his heart beat heavily, but he had not the energy to get up.","他口中干涩疼痛，心脏剧烈地跳着，但实在没有力气起来了。"
"His heart beat heavily.","他的心脏剧烈地跳着。"
"Where was he?—the barracks—at home?","他这是在哪里？——军营？——家里？"
"There was something knocking.","有什么东西正在敲打着。"
"And, making an effort, he looked round—trees, and litter of greenery, and reddish, bright, still pieces of sunshine on the floor.","他努力朝四周望去——那里有树林、枯木的落叶，还有洒在地上微红的、明亮斑驳的阳光。"
"He did not believe he was himself, he did not believe what he saw.","他无法相信他是他自己，无法相信眼前的一切。"
"Something was knocking.","什么东西正在敲打着。"
"He made a struggle towards consciousness, but relapsed.","他挣扎着想要恢复意识，但是失败了。"
"Then he struggled again.","他又试了一次。"
"And gradually his surroundings fell into relationship with himself.","渐渐地，他将自己和周围的环境联系起来。"
"He knew, and a great pang of fear went through his heart.","他明白过来了，同时一阵强烈的恐惧感在他心中升腾。"
"Somebody was knocking.","什么人在敲打着。"
"He could see the heavy, black rags of a fir tree overhead.","他可以看见头顶一棵冷杉上沉甸甸、黑黝黝的枯叶。"
"Then everything went black.","接着，一切都变黑了。"
"Yet he did not believe he had closed his eyes.","可他不相信自己已经闭上了眼睛。"
"He had not.","他并没有闭眼。"
"Out of the blackness sight slowly emerged again.","景物缓缓地再次从黑暗中显现出来。"
"And someone was knocking.","什么人在敲打着。"
"Quickly, he saw the blood-disfigured face of his Captain, which he hated.","突然，他看见上尉血肉模糊的脸，那张他仇恨的脸。"
"And he held himself still with horror.","恐惧中，他不敢动弹。"
"Yet, deep inside him, he knew that it was so, the Captain should be dead.","但是在内心深处，他知道上尉已经死了。"
"But the physical delirium got hold of him.","但是身体的错乱又让他身不由己。"
"Someone was knocking.","什么人在敲打着。"
"He lay perfectly still, as if dead, with fear.","他带着恐惧，直挺挺地躺着，像死了似的。"
"And he went unconscious.","他之后便失去了知觉。"
"When he opened his eyes again, he started, seeing something creeping swiftly up a tree-trunk.","再次睁开眼，他吓了一跳，看到有东西迅速地爬上树干。"
"It was a little bird.","是一只小鸟。"
"And the bird was whistling overhead.","小鸟在他头顶上啾啾叫着。"
"Tap-tap-tap—it was the small, quick bird rapping the tree-trunk with its beak, as if its head were a little round hammer.","嗒—嗒—嗒——小鸟用鸟喙快速地戳着树干，脑袋像一个圆形的小榔头。"
"He watched it curiously.","他饶有趣味地看着。"
"It shifted sharply, in its creeping fashion.","小鸟以特有的方式敏捷地移动着。"
"Then, like a mouse, it slid down the bare trunk.","之后它又像只耗子一样，从光秃秃的树干上滑了下来。"
"Its swift creeping sent a flash of revulsion through him.","小鸟敏捷地爬来爬去让他闪过一丝厌恶。"
"He raised his head.","他抬起头。"
"It felt a great weight.","这让他感觉十分沉重。"
"Then, the little bird ran out of the shadow across a still patch of sunshine, its little head bobbing swiftly, its white legs twinkling brightly for a moment.","小鸟跳出了阴影，穿过一片停驻的阳光，小脑袋灵活地转动着，白色的小腿明晃晃地闪了片刻。"
"How neat it was in its build, so compact, with pieces of white on its wings.","它的身形如此灵活而紧凑，翅膀上带着白点。"
"There were several of them.","旁边还有另外几只。"
"They were so pretty—but they crept like swift, erratic mice, running here and there among the beech-mast.","它们真好看——但是爬起来却像身形敏捷、到处乱跑的老鼠，在山毛榉果实之间窜来窜去。"
"He lay down again exhausted, and his consciousness lapsed.","因为疲惫，他又躺下了，并且失去了意识。"
"He had a horror of the little creeping birds.","爬来爬去的小鸟们让他感到一阵恐惧。"
"All his blood seemed to be darting and creeping in his head.","他全身的血液仿佛都冲进了他的脑袋，在里面缓缓地流动着。"
"And yet he could not move.","但他仍然无法动弹。"
"He came to with a further ache of exhaustion.","在另一阵因疲惫而加重的疼痛中，他醒了过来。"
"There was the pain in his head, and the horrible sickness, and his inability to move.","他头痛，感到极度恶心，并且动弹不得。"
"He had never been ill in his life.","他从出生到现在还从没病过。"
"He did not know where he was or what he was.","他不知道自己在哪里，也不知道他是做什么的。"
"Probably he had got sunstroke.","或许他中暑了。"
"Or what else?—he had silenced the Captain for ever—some time ago—oh, a long time ago.","或是别的什么缘故？他已经让上尉永远地安静了——就在不久之前——噢，很久之前。"
"There had been blood on his face, and his eyes had turned upwards.","他满脸是血，双眼向上翻着。"
"It was all right, somehow.","不管怎样，那还不错。"
"It was peace.","挺平静。"
"But now he had got beyond himself.","但是现在他已经失去自己了。"
"He had never been here before.","他从没来过这里。"
"Was it life, or not life?","他还活着吗？还是已经死了？"
"He was by himself.","他独自一人。"
"They were in a big, bright place, those others, and he was outside.","其他的人都身处一个宽敞明亮之地，他却置身之外。"
"The town, all the country, a big bright place of light: and he was outside, here, in the darkened open beyond, where each thing existed alone.","城镇，整个村庄，既宽阔又明亮，但他却置身之外。在这个空旷黑暗之地，一切都孤立存在着。"
"But they would all have to come out there sometime, those others.","但是其他人以后也都会去那里。"
"Little, and left behind him, they all were.","他们都是渺小的，跟随在他之后。"
"There had been father and mother and sweetheart.","其中有父亲、母亲，还有情人。"
"What did they all matter?","他们又能怎样？"
"This was the open land.","这里是一片空旷之地。"
"He sat up.","他坐了起来。"
"Something scuffled.","什么东西伏在地上窸窸窣窣的。"
"It was a little, brown squirrel running in lovely, undulating bounds over the floor, its red tail completing the undulation of its body—and then, as it sat up, furling and unfurling.","原来是一只棕色的小松鼠在地上一起一伏愉悦地跑着，红色的尾巴使它的身子形成了波浪状——它一坐起来，尾巴便一伸一缩的。"
"He watched it, pleased.","他高兴地看着松鼠。"
"It ran on again, friskily, enjoying itself.","松鼠又自得其乐地跑跑跳跳起来。"
"It flew wildly at another squirrel, and they were chasing each other, and making little scolding, chattering noises.","它猛地朝另一只松鼠扑去，接着它们就开始互相追逐，并微微发出叽叽喳喳的吵闹声。"
"The soldier wanted to speak to them.","士兵想跟它们说话。"
"But only a hoarse sound came out of his throat.","但是从他嗓子眼发出的只有沙哑的低声。"
"The squirrels burst away—they flew up the trees.","松鼠迅速跑开，窜到了树上。"
"And then he saw the one peeping round at him, half-way up a tree-trunk.","他看见其中一只停在一棵树腰，偷偷打量着他。"
"A start of fear went through him, though, in so far as he was conscious, he was amused.","他已经恢复了意识，看到眼前的情景让他觉得好笑，但一阵恐惧还是掠过了他的全身。"
"It still stayed, its little, keen face staring at him halfway up the tree-trunk, its little ears pricked up, its clawey little hands clinging to the bark, its white breast reared.","松鼠仍然停在树腰上，那张真切的小脸盯着他，竖着一对小耳朵，用小爪子扒着树皮，白白的胸脯向外挺着。"
"He started from it in panic.","这让他感到惶恐。"
"Struggling to his feet, he lurched away.","他挣扎着站起来，一摇一摆地走开。"
"He went on walking, walking, looking for something—for a drink.","他一直走着，找寻着什么——找寻可以喝的东西。"
"His brain felt hot and inflamed for want of water.","口渴已经让他的脑袋热得烧了起来。"
"He stumbled on.","他继续跌跌撞撞地走着。"
"Then he did not know anything.","接着就什么都不知道了。"
"He went unconscious as he walked.","他走着走着就失去意识了。"
"Yet he stumbled on, his mouth open.","但他跌跌撞撞地走了下去，嘴巴张着。"
"When, to his dumb wonder, he opened his eyes on the world again, he no longer tried to remember what it was.","让他暗自吃惊的是，当他再次睁开眼睛时，他已不再去试着回想眼前的一切是什么了。"
"There was thick, golden light behind golden-green glitterings, and tall, grey-purple shafts, and darknesses further off, surrounding him, growing deeper.","灿烂的金色和绿色背后是浓厚的金色阳光，高大的紫灰色树干和远处的黑暗将他包围，而且越来越暗。"
"He was conscious of a sense of arrival.","他有一种到达目的地的感觉。"
"He was amid the reality, on the real, dark bottom.","他身处现实之中，真实的黑暗谷底。"
"But there was the thirst burning in his brain.","但是口干舌燥的感觉占据了他的思绪。"
"He felt lighter, not so heavy.","他觉得轻飘飘的，没之前那么沉重了。"
"He supposed it was newness.","他猜想大概是重获新生了吧。"
"The air was muttering with thunder.","空中传来低沉的雷声。"
"He thought he was walking wonderfully swiftly and was coming straight to relief—or was it to water?","他觉得自己走得相当轻快，径直朝解脱奔去——或许前面就有水了？"
"Suddenly he stood still with fear.","突然间，他害怕了，停住了脚步。"
"There was a tremendous flare of gold, immense—just a few dark trunks like bars between him and it.","前方一大片灿烂金光，仿佛燃烧着的火焰，几棵深色的树干像栅栏一样，挡在他与金光之间。"
"All the young level wheat was burnished gold glaring on its silky green.","新长出的麦子整整齐齐，绿油油的，也被金色的火焰所笼罩。"
"A woman, full-skirted, a black cloth on her head for head-dress, was passing like a block of shadow through the glistening, green corn, into the full glare.","一个穿着长裙的女人，头戴一块黑布头巾，像一团影子似的穿过闪闪发光的绿色玉米地，来到这片金光璀璨之中。"
"There was a farm, too, pale blue in shadow, and the timber black.","那里还有一座农舍，在树阴下发出昏暗的蓝光，木料则是黑色的。"
"And there was a church spire, nearly fused away in the gold.","教堂的尖顶几乎要被金光熔掉了。"
"The woman moved on, away from him.","妇女继续走着，离他越来越远。"
"He had no language with which to speak to her.","他无法用语言与她交谈。"
"She was the bright, solid unreality.","她只是一个清晰而纯粹的虚幻。"
"She would make a noise of words that would confuse him, and her eyes would look at him without seeing him.","她说出的话他无法理解，她的双眼瞧着他，眼里却没有他。"
"She was crossing there to the other side.","她从这里穿过，走到另外一边。"
"He stood against a tree.","他靠着一棵树站着。"
"When at last he turned, looking down the long, bare grove whose flat bed was already filling dark, he saw the mountains in a wonder-light, not far away, and radiant.","最后，他转过身去，俯视着长长的、光秃秃的树丛，它们已经变暗了。此时，他看见不远处的山峦被霞光笼罩，熠熠发光。"
"Behind the soft, grey ridge of the nearest range the further mountains stood golden and pale grey, the snow all radiant like pure, soft gold.","在离他最近的那道轻柔灰色的山脊背后，耸立着呈金黄和浅灰色的远山。山顶上的积雪，光芒四射，仿佛纯净柔软的金子。"
"So still, gleaming in the sky, fashioned pure out of the ore of the sky, they shone in their silence.","它静静地发着光，在天空中闪烁着，如此静谧，如此纯粹。"
"He stood and looked at them, his face illuminated.","他站在那里看着，脸也被照亮了。"
"And like the golden, lustrous gleaming of the snow he felt his own thirst bright in him.","如同积雪反射出的金色光芒，干渴的感觉在他体内跳动着。"
"He stood and gazed, leaning against a tree.","他倚着一棵树站立，痴痴地凝视着。"
"And then everything slid away into space.","一切都消散于无形之中。"
"During the night the lightning fluttered perpetually, making the whole sky white.","夜里，闪电不断，整片夜空都被照成了白色。"
"He must have walked again.","他肯定又往前走了。"
"The world hung livid round him for moments, fields a level sheen of grey-green light, trees in dark bulk, and the range of clouds black across a white sky.","有好一阵，他四周的世界呈现出青灰色，田野闪着灰绿色的光泽，树木漆黑，一道道黑云穿过白色的天空。"
"Then the darkness fell like a shutter, and the night was whole.","接着黑暗再次闪现，就又是一片黑夜了。"
"A faint flutter of a half-revealed world, that could not quite leap out of the darkness!—Then there again stood a sweep of pallor for the land, dark shapes looming, a range of clouds hanging overhead.","一个半隐半现的世界微微一闪，依旧被黑暗裹挟着！——大地再次被闪电照亮，一片苍白憔悴，暗夜袭来，头顶被一团黑云笼罩。"
"The world was a ghostly shadow, thrown for a moment upon the pure darkness, which returned ever whole and complete.","世界就是个可怕的影子，遮盖在纯粹的黑暗之上，整个世界又完全回归到一片黑暗之中。"
"And the mere delirium of sickness and fever went on inside him—his brain opening and shutting like the night—then sometimes convulsions of terror from something with great eyes that stared round a tree—then the long agony of the march, and the sun decomposing his blood—then the pang of hate for the Captain, followed by a pang of tenderness and ease.","他的精神继续错乱，还发着烧——脑袋如同黑夜一样忽闪着——时不时地，似乎某个长着眼睛的巨大东西在树旁瞪着他，使他吓得发抖——他又回想起长途行军的痛苦，灼热的日光腐蚀了他的血液——还有对上尉的仇恨，继而，他又恢复了平静。"
"But everything was distorted, born of an ache and resolving into an ache.","可是一切都扭曲了，一切都来源于痛苦，都以痛苦结束。"
"In the morning he came definitely awake.","清晨，他完全清醒了。"
"Then his brain flamed with the sole horror of thirstiness!","干渴让他恐慌，脑袋里也烧起来了。"
"The sun was on his face, the dew was steaming from his wet clothes.","阳光照在他的脸上，湿衣服上的露水正在蒸发。"
"Like one possessed, he got up.","他像着了魔一样站起来。"
"There, straight in front of him, blue and cool and tender, the mountains ranged across the pale edge of the morning sky.","就在他面前，群山散发着温柔、清冷的蓝色光辉，横跨清晨惨白的天际。"
"He wanted them—he wanted them alone—he wanted to leave himself and be identified with them.","他想拥有它们——想独自拥有它们——想要与它们化身为一体。"
"They did not move, they were still soft, with white, gentle markings of snow.","它们屹立不动，仍是那么温柔，覆盖着柔软的白雪。"
"He stood still, mad with suffering, his hands crisping and clutching.","他静静地站着，痛苦得几近癫狂。他的双手紧紧地攥着，关节发出嘎吱的响声。"
"Then he was twisting in a paroxysm on the grass.","突然，他倒在草地上抽搐起来。"
"He lay still, in a kind of dream of anguish.","他直挺挺地躺着，仿佛进入了一场极度痛苦的梦境。"
"His thirst seemed to have separated itself from him, and to stand apart, a single demand.","干渴感似乎已经与他分离了，站在一旁，变成了一个独立的诉求。"
"Then the pain he felt was another single self.","疼痛也变成了一个独立的自我。"
"Then there was the clog of his body, another separate thing.","沉重的躯体也独立出来。"
"He was divided among all kinds of separate beings.","他被分解成了一个个独立的存在。"
"There was some strange, agonized connection between them, but they were drawing further apart.","它们之间虽然存在某种神奇而痛苦的联系，但是也渐行渐远了。"
"Then they would all split.","最终它们会彻底撕裂。"
"The sun, drilling down on him, was drilling through the bond.","太阳炙烤着他，将所有的联系都阻断了。"
"Then they would all fall, fall through the everlasting lapse of space.","随后它们全会落下去，穿过不断流逝的时空，落下去。"
"Then again, his consciousness reasserted itself.","他的意识又恢复了。"
"He roused on to his elbow and stared at the gleaming mountains.","他用胳膊肘撑着身子，望着那熠熠生辉的群山。"
"There they ranked, all still and wonderful between earth and heaven.","山峦座座，静静地耸立在天地之间，令人叹为观止。"
"He stared till his eyes went black, and the mountains, as they stood in their beauty, so clean and cool, seemed to have it, that which was lost in him.","他死死地望着，直到眼前发黑。而那些群山，雄伟地耸立着，如此洁净和清爽，而这正是他身上丢失了的东西。"

"Chapter IV","第四章"
"When the soldiers found him, three hours later, he was lying with his face over his arm, his black hair giving off heat under the sun.","三个小时之后，士兵们发现了他，他的脸枕在胳膊上，黑发在太阳下散发着热气。"
"But he was still alive.","但他还活着。"
"Seeing the open, black mouth the young soldiers dropped him in horror.","看见他大张着的、乌黑的嘴巴，年轻的士兵们惊恐地把他扔回地上。"
"He died in the hospital at night, without having seen again.","晚上，他死在了医院里，再也没有睁开眼睛。"
"The doctors saw the bruises on his legs, behind, and were silent.","医生们看见他大腿后面的瘀伤后，都陷入了沉默。"
"The bodies of the two men lay together, side by side, in the mortuary, the one white and slender, but laid rigidly at rest, the other looking as if every moment it must rouse into life again, so young and unused, from a slumber.","停尸房里，这两人的尸体肩并肩躺在一起：一个白皙纤瘦，但僵硬地沉睡着；另一个年轻稚嫩，仿佛下一秒便要从沉睡中苏醒过来。"

