"书名地狱之火（欧·亨利经典短篇小说）短简介作为一个热爱写作的人，如何让自己的小说得到出版？小说《地狱之火》中热爱写作的佩蒂特向出版社投稿爱情小说被弃用，后经一位年轻姑娘对他疯狂追求激发了他灵感重写了爱情小说才得以录用，这让他困惑：写作不能靠墨水，不能靠自己的心血，而是要用别人心里的血？这就是出版业的潜规则？长简介小说《地狱之火》通过一个热爱写作的青年佩蒂特的遭遇揭露了出版行业的潜规则。佩蒂特想要在出版物上发表爱情小说，在经历了狂热的追求一位姑娘后，他将自己的情感挥洒在自己的小说里，这样的作品却没有得到认可。直到后来他又被另一位姑娘狂热追求，并且将这种体会描写在小说里时，他发现这样的作品得到了很高的评价。这样的反差让他感慨：写作不能靠自己的心血，而是要用别人心里的血。这样的不理解使他无奈放弃了钟爱的写作事业。作者借佩蒂特讽刺了出版业的现状。关键字地狱之火；欧·亨利；外研社编译组；短篇；批判；出版；成功作者（美）欧·亨利作者简介欧·亨利（1862—1910），美国著名批判现实主义作家，世界三大短篇小说大师之一，被誉为“曼哈顿桂冠散文作家”和“美国现代短篇小说之父”。他的一生富于传奇性，做过药房学徒、会计、新闻记者、银行出纳等多个工作。其作品构思新颖，语言诙谐，人物众多，富于生活情趣，尤以出人意料的结尾闻名，被誉为“美国生活的幽默百科全书”。书评 “当我轻松地对待可笑的事物时，我也是严肃地对待它”。——马克思你得先做卑鄙小人，才可以成为艺术家：这是出版业的游戏规则？"
"The Plutonian Fire","地狱之火"
"by O. Henry","作者：欧·亨利"
"There are a few editor men with whom I am privileged to come in contact.","我有幸与一些编辑先生有过联络。"
"It has not been long since it was their habit to come in contact with me.","不久前，他们才开始习惯于主动跟我联系。"
"There is a difference.","这二者是不同的。"
"They tell me that with a large number of the manuscripts that are submitted to them come advices (in the way of a boost) from the author asseverating that the incidents in the story are true.","他们告诉我，寄给他们的许多稿件都附有作者声明（作为宣扬的手段），称文中的事件都是真实的。"
"The destination of such contributions depends wholly upon the question of the enclosure of stamps.","这类稿件的归宿全凭随信是否附有退稿邮票而定。"
"Some are returned, the rest are thrown on the floor in a corner on top of a pair of gum shoes, an overturned statuette of the Winged Victory, and a pile of old magazines containing a picture of the editor in the act of reading the latest copy of Le Petit Journal, right side up—you can tell by the illustrations.","有的给退回了，其余的则被扔到一个角落，角落里有一双胶鞋、一尊倒了的希腊胜利女神小塑像和一堆摞在一起的旧杂志，上面印着主编在翻阅最近一期法国《小报》的照片——你一眼就能认出。"
"It is only a legend that there are waste baskets in editors’ offices.","人们以为编辑办公室里是有废纸篓的，那顶多是个传说而已。"
"Thus is truth held in disrepute.","这样看来，真实性一说也就不堪一击了。"
"But in time truth and science and nature will adapt themselves to art.","但终有一天，真实、科学与自然会自我调整以适应艺术的需要。"
"Things will happen logically, and the villain be discomfited instead of being elected to the board of directors.","事物的发展会合乎逻辑，坏人会遭到恶报，而不是被选进董事会里。"
"But in the meantime fiction must not only be divorced from fact, but must pay alimony and be awarded custody of the press despatches.","不过目前的小说非但必须与事实脱离开来，而且必须支付给它赡养费并让它监管新闻报道。"
"This preamble is to warn you off the grade crossing of a true story.","这段引子的目的是提醒各位，要注意真实故事的衡量标准。"
"Being that, it shall be told simply, with conjunctions substituted for adjectives wherever possible, and whatever evidences of style may appear in it shall be due to the linotype man.","作为真实的故事，叙述手法应简单，尽量用连词代替形容词，如果文中出现了某些修饰手法，那一定是排版工人搞的。"
"It is a story of the literary life in a great city, and it should be of interest to every author within a 20-mile radius of Gosport, Ind., whose desk holds a MS. story beginning thus: “While the cheers following his nomination were still ringing through the old court-house, Harwood broke away from the congratulating handclasps of his henchmen and hurried to Judge Creswell’s house to find Ida.”","涉及大城市文学生活的故事，应该会引起像印第安纳州戈斯波特方圆二十英里内的每一位作家的兴趣，只要那位作家书桌上的小说底稿是这样开头的：“宣布他被提名后，县法院的老房子里还回荡着欢呼声时，哈伍德便从支持者的握手祝贺中挣脱出来，匆匆去克雷斯韦尔法官家找艾达。”"
"Pettit came up out of Alabama to write fiction.","佩蒂特从亚拉巴马州出来要写小说。"
"The Southern papers had printed eight of his stories under an editorial caption identifying the author as the son of “the gallant Major Pettingill Pettit, our former County Attorney and hero of the battle of Lookout Mountain.”","南方的一些报纸发表过他的八篇短篇小说，每篇都附有编者注，说明作者的父亲是“英勇的佩廷吉尔·佩蒂特少校——本县的前地方检察官和卢考特山战役的英雄”。"
"Pettit was a rugged fellow, with a kind of shame-faced culture, and my good friend.","佩蒂特是我的好朋友。他是个粗人，有着谦卑的修养。"
"His father kept a general store in a little town called Hosea.","他的父亲在一个名叫霍齐亚的小镇开杂货店。"
"Pettit had been raised in the pine-woods and broom-sedge fields adjacent thereto.","佩蒂特就在附近的松树林和扫帚草地上长大。"
"He had in his gripsack two manuscript novels of the adventures in Picardy of one Gaston Laboulaye, Vicompte de Montrepos, in the year 1329.","他的公文包里装着两部小说的底稿，小说讲的是1329年蒙特雷波子爵加斯顿·拉布来在皮卡第的历险。"
"That’s nothing.","那不算什么。"
"We all do that.","我们都那么做。"
"And some day when we make a hit with the little sketch about a newsy and his lame dog, the editor prints the other one for us—or “on us,” as the saying is—and then—and then we have to get a big valise and peddle those patent air-draft gas burners.","有一天，当我们靠一篇有关一个报童和他的瘸腿狗的随笔大获成功时，编辑就把我们写的另一篇也刊登出来——或者说是“关于我们的”，正如俗话说的那样——然后——然后我们不得不提着一个大手提包推销专利通风煤气炉。"
"At $1.25 everybody should have ’em.","1.25美元一个，人人都该拥有。"
"I took Pettit to the red-brick house which was to appear in an article entitled “Literary Landmarks of Old New York,” some day when we got through with it.","我带佩蒂特去看了一座红砖房屋，这座房子在我们度过了这段时日后将会出现在一篇题为《老纽约的文学人物故居》的文章里。"
"He engaged a room there, drawing on the general store for his expenses.","他在那里租了一个房间，靠杂货店的收入支付房费。"
"I showed New York to him, and he did not mention how much narrower Broadway is than Lee Avenue in Hosea.","我带他在纽约市观光，他并没有说百老汇路比霍齐亚的李将军路窄多了。"
"This seemed a good sign, so I put the final test.","这迹象似乎不错，于是我做了最后一个试验。"
"“Suppose you try your hand at a descriptive article,” I suggested, “giving your impressions of New York as seen from the Brooklyn Bridge.","“假如你尝试写篇叙述文，”我建议道，“你可以谈谈站在布鲁克林桥上看纽约的印象。"
"The fresh point of view, the—”","这不失为一种新鲜的视角——”"
"“Don’t be a fool,” said Pettit.","“别傻了，”佩蒂特说，"
"“Let’s go have some beer.","“我们去喝点儿啤酒吧。"
"On the whole I rather like the city.”","总的说来，我相当喜欢这个城市。”"
"We discovered and enjoyed the only true Bohemia.","我们发现并且十分欣赏唯一真正的波希米亚区。"
"Every day and night we repaired to one of those palaces of marble and glass and tilework, where goes on a tremendous and sounding epic of life.","我们每天每夜都会光顾那些上演壮丽响亮的生活史诗的、用大理石、玻璃和瓷砖装潢的场所中的一个。"
"Valhalla itself could not be more glorious and sonorous.","就算瓦尔哈拉也不及它辉煌响亮。"
"The classic marble on which we ate, the great, light-flooded, vitreous front, adorned with snow-white scrolls; the grand Wagnerian din of clanking cups and bowls, the flashing staccato of brandishing cutlery, the piercing recitative of the white-aproned grub-maidens at the morgue-like banquet tables; the recurrent lied-motif of the cash-register—it was a gigantic, triumphant welding of art and sound, a deafening, soul-uplifting pageant of heroic and emblematic life.","我们进餐用的古典式大理石桌子，流光溢彩、有雪白涡卷形状装饰的大橱窗，杯盏碗盘碰撞声组成的雄伟的瓦格纳式交响乐，刀叉挥舞的闪亮断奏，系白围裙的女侍者在铺着白布的、停尸房般的宴会桌前高亢的宣叙调，收银机一再重复的编谎主题——这是艺术和声响的庞大的、胜利的融合，是对英雄的、标志性生活的震耳欲聋、振奋精神的赞歌。"
"And the beans were only ten cents.","并且豆子只卖十美分。"
"We wondered why our fellow-artists cared to dine at sad little tables in their so-called Bohemian restaurants; and we shuddered lest they should seek out our resorts and make them conspicuous with their presence.","我们不明白，我们的艺术家同行们为什么要在他们所谓的波希米亚餐馆的凄凉小桌前吃饭；一想到他们可能会发现我们的好地方，蜂拥而至并使这些地方从此出名，我们就浑身颤抖，担心起来。"
"Pettit wrote many stories, which the editors returned to him.","佩蒂特写过不少小说，无一例外地遭到编辑退稿。"
"He wrote love stories, a thing I have always kept free from, holding the belief that the well-known and popular sentiment is not properly a matter for publication, but something to be privately handled by the alienists and florists.","他写爱情故事，这类题材我一直回避，因为我相信这种广为人知并受到欢迎的情感不适宜印刷出版，而应该由精神病医生和花店老板私下处理。"
"But the editors had told him that they wanted love stories, because they said the women read them.","但是编辑们告诉过他，因为女性爱看，所以他们需要爱情故事。"
"Now, the editors are wrong about that, of course.","当然啦，现在看来编辑的观点是错的。"
"Women do not read the love stories in the magazines.","妇女们并不看杂志上的爱情故事。"
"They read the poker-game stories and the recipes for cucumber lotion.","她们渴望看的是扑克牌游戏和黄瓜美容液的配方。"
"The love stories are read by fat cigar drummers and little ten-year-old girls.","看爱情小说的是肥胖的雪茄烟旅行推销员和十来岁的小姑娘。"
"I am not criticising the judgment of editors.","我不是在批评编辑们的判断。"
"They are mostly very fine men, but a man can be but one man, with individual opinions and tastes.","他们大多都是好人，但是人人不同，每个人都有自己的观点和品位。"
"I knew two associate editors of a magazine who were wonderfully alike in almost everything.","我认识一家杂志的两个副主编，几乎各方面都惊人地相似。"
"And yet one of them was very fond of Flaubert, while the other preferred gin.","但是一个极其喜爱福楼拜，另一个却偏爱杜松子酒。"
"Pettit brought me his returned manuscripts, and we looked them over together to find out why they were not accepted.","佩蒂特把退稿拿给我看，我们一起反复分析稿件未录用的原因。"
"They seemed to me pretty fair stories, written in a good style, and ended, as they should, at the bottom of the last page.","在我看来，那些小说都不错，文笔很好，并且都中规中矩地在最后一页的底部结尾。"
"They were well constructed and the events were marshalled in orderly and logical sequence.","小说结构严谨，事件井然有序，合乎逻辑。"
"But I thought I detected a lack of living substance—it was much as if I gazed at a symmetrical array of presentable clamshells from which the succulent and vital inhabitants had been removed.","但是我认为里面缺少一种活的东西——好像我正在看的是一些排列整齐漂亮的蛤壳，里面鲜美多汁的活肉却给掏空了。"
"I intimated that the author might do well to get better acquainted with his theme.","我暗示道，如果作者能更熟悉他的题材就好了。"
"“You sold a story last week,” said Pettit, “about a gun fight in an Arizona mining town in which the hero drew his Colt’s .45 and shot seven bandits as fast as they came in the door.","“上个星期你卖掉了一篇小说，”佩蒂特说，“写的是亚利桑那一个矿镇里的枪战，主人公拔出四五口径的柯尔特左轮手枪，打死了刚进门的七个匪徒。"
"Now, if a six-shooter could—”","可是，一把六响手枪，怎么能——”"
"“Oh, well,” said I, “that’s different.","“哦，”我说，“那不一样。"
"Arizona is a long way from New York.","亚利桑那离纽约很远。"
"I could have a man stabbed with a lariat or chased by a pair of chaparreras if I wanted to, and it wouldn’t be noticed until the usual error-sharp from around McAdams Junction isolates the erratum and writes in to the papers about it.","如果乐意的话，我还可以写一个被套索刺伤或者被皮裤追赶的人，只要没有哪位住在麦克亚当斯交汇点处的人把错误挑出来并向报纸投诉，又有谁会注意到呢？"
"But you are up against another proposition.","但你要写的是另外一个主题。"
"This thing they call love is as common around New York as it is in Sheboygan during the young onion season.","人们称之为爱情的东西，不论在纽约或是威斯康星州的希博伊根都很常见。"
"It may be mixed here with a little commercialism—they read Byron, but they look up Bradstreet’s, too, while they’re among the B’s, and Brigham also if they have time—but it’s pretty much the same old internal disturbance everywhere.","这里或许融入了一些商业气息——人们读拜伦的诗，也看布雷兹特里特的作品，既然两位诗人的姓都以字母B开头，人们有时间的话，也会看看布里格姆的作品——不论在什么地方，爱情都是老一套的内心骚乱。"
"You can fool an editor with a fake picture of a cowboy mounting a pony with his left hand on the saddle horn, but you can’t put him up a tree with a love story.","你可以用左手扶住鞍头上马的牛仔的外行画面来糊弄编辑，但是爱情小说骗不了他。"
"So, you’ve got to fall in love and then write the real thing.”","因此，想写出货真价实的东西，你得先让自己坠入爱河。”"
"Pettit did.","佩蒂特照做了。"
"I never knew whether he was taking my advice or whether he fell an accidental victim.","我无从知道他到底是在听从我的建议呢，还是他意外地成了受害者。"
"There was a girl he had met at one of these studio contrivances—a glorious, impudent, lucid, open-minded girl with hair the color of Culmbacher, and a good-natured way of despising you.","他在文艺界的聚会上认识了一个姑娘——一个快乐而轻率、头脑清晰、思想开放、头发金黄、瞧不起人却又好脾气的姑娘。"
"She was a New York girl.","她是个纽约人。"
"Well (as the narrative style permits us to say infrequently), Pettit went to pieces.","闲话少叙，佩蒂特一下就崩溃了。"
"All those pains, those lover’s doubts, those heart-burnings and tremors of which he had written so unconvincingly were his.","他笔下那些难以令人信服的痛苦、情人间的猜疑、妒忌和震颤无一例外地落在他自己身上。"
"Talk about Shylock’s pound of flesh!","夏洛克要对方的那一磅肉算什么！"
"Twenty-five pounds Cupid got from Pettit.","丘比特害佩蒂特少了二十五磅肉。"
"Which is the usurer?","究竟谁是放高利贷的？"
"One night Pettit came to my room exalted.","一天晚上，佩蒂特欣喜地来到我房里。"
"Pale and haggard but exalted.","他脸色苍白而憔悴，但却得意洋洋。"
"She had given him a jonquil.","他的女朋友给了他一朵淡黄色的长寿花。"
"“Old Hoss,” said he, with a new smile flickering around his mouth, “I believe I could write that story to-night—the one, you know, that is to win out.","“老霍斯，”他说着，嘴角闪过从未有过的微笑，“我相信我今晚就能写出那篇小说——你知道的，那篇可以一举成名的作品。"
"I can feel it.","我能感觉到。"
"I don’t know whether it will come out or not, but I can feel it.”","我说不好能不能发表，但我能感觉到它了。”"
"I pushed him out of my door.","我把他推出房门。"
"“Go to your room and write it,” I ordered.","“那就回你房里立刻开始写吧，”我吩咐道，"
"“Else I can see your finish.","“不然你就写不成了。"
"I told you this must come first.","我跟你说过，得先有亲身体会。"
"Write it to-night and put it under my door when it is done.","今晚就写，写完后从门底下塞进来。"
"Put it under my door to-night when it is finished—don’t keep it until to－mmorrow。”","今晚写完后从门底下塞进来——不要等到明天。”"
"I was reading my bully old pal Montaigne at two o’clock when I heard the sheets rustle under my door.","夜里两点钟，我正在读我的老朋友蒙田的散文时，听到房门底下有纸张滑过的窸窣声。"
"I gathered them up and read the story.","我把它们拿起来并开始读起来。"
"The hissing of geese, the languishing cooing of doves, the braying of donkeys, the chatter of irresponsible sparrows—these were in my mind’s ear as I read.","我阅读时，仿佛听到了鹅发出的嘎嘎声、鸽子懒洋洋的咕咕声、驴子的叫声和麻雀不负责任的叽喳声。"
"“Suffering Sappho!”","“痛苦的萨福！”","译者注：萨福（Sappho），古希腊女诗人，因得不到她所爱青年的回报而十分痛苦，在家乡教授妇女诗歌和音乐。"
"I exclaimed to myself.","我暗自说，"
"“Is this the divine fire that is supposed to ignite genius and make it practical and wage-earning?”","“难道这就是本应该激发天才、使之注重实际并挣钱糊口的圣火吗？”"
"The story was sentimental drivel, full of whimpering soft-heartedness and gushing egoism.","那篇小说就是多愁善感的胡言乱语，通篇自怨自艾的呜咽和滔滔不绝的利己主义。"
"All the art that Pettit had acquired was gone.","佩蒂特原先学到的艺术技巧都不见了。"
"A perusal of its buttery phrases would have made a cynic of a sighing chambermaid.","唉声叹气的女仆看多了那些油滑的词句也会变得玩世不恭。"
"In the morning Pettit came to my room.","早上佩蒂特来到我的房间。"
"I read him his doom mercilessly.","我毫不留情地将我对他的宣判告诉了他。"
"He laughed idiotically.","他像白痴似的笑了。"
"“All right, Old Hoss,” he said, cheerily, “make cigar-lighters of it.","“好吧，老霍斯，”他快活地说，“那就用它来点儿雪茄抽吧。"
"What’s the difference?","那又有什么关系呢？"
"I’m going to take her to lunch at Claremont to-day.”","我今天要带她去克莱尔蒙特吃午饭。”"
"There was about a month of it.","这样过了大概一个月。"
"And then Pettit came to me bearing an invisible mitten, with the fortitude of a dish-rag.","佩蒂特垂头丧气地来看我，一筹莫展，就像一块洗碗布。"
"He talked of the grave and South America and prussic acid; and I lost an afternoon getting him straight.","他提到坟墓、南美洲和服毒自杀，我花了一个下午开导他。"
"I took him out and saw that large and curative doses of whiskey were administered to him.","我带他出去，让他用大剂量的威士忌疗伤。"
"I warned you this was a true story—’ware your white ribbons if only follow this tale.","前面说过，这是个真实的故事——您若是照做，小心喝上瘾。"
"For two weeks I fed him whiskey and Omar, and read to him regularly every evening the column in the evening paper that reveals the secrets of female beauty.","我用威士忌和欧玛尔喂了他两个星期，每晚还把晚报上介绍女性美容诀窍的专栏读给他听。"
"I recommend the treatment.","这种疗法我很推崇。"
"After Pettit was cured he wrote more stories.","佩蒂特恢复后，写了更多的小说。"
"He recovered his old-time facility and did work just short of good enough.","他又找回了以前的天赋，写的东西差一点儿算得上佳作。"
"Then the curtain rose on the third act.","这时候，第三幕开场了。"
"A little, dark-eyed, silent girl from New Hampshire, who was studying applied design, fell deeply in love with him.","一个学习应用设计的新罕布什尔姑娘深深地爱上了他。那姑娘身材娇小，黑眼睛，言语不多。"
"She was the intense sort, but externally glacé, such as New England sometimes fools us with.","她属于外冷内热型，正如新英格兰人给我们的表象一样。"
"Pettit liked her mildly, and took her about a good deal.","佩蒂特对她有些好感，经常带她四处游玩。"
"She worshipped him, and now and then bored him.","她崇拜他，有时也惹他心烦。"
"There came a climax when she tried to jump out of a window, and he had to save her by some perfunctary, unmeant wooing.","高潮终于来临了，她爬上窗口要跳楼，为了救她，他不得不说了一些违心求爱的话。"
"Even I was shaken by the depths of the absorbing affection she showed.","她对他爱得死去活来，即使是我也着实震惊。"
"Home, friends, traditions, creeds went up like thistle-down in the scale against her love.","同她的爱情相比，家庭、朋友、传统、信仰通通都轻如鸿毛。"
"It was really discomposing.","这着实惊心动魄。"
"One night again Pettit sauntered in, yawning.","一天晚上，佩蒂特打着哈欠漫步走进我的房间。"
"As he had told me before, he said he felt that he could do a great story, and as before I hunted him to his room and saw him open his inkstand.","像上一次那样，他说他觉得他能写出一篇伟大的小说，同样，我赶他回房间，并看着他打开了墨水瓶盖。"
"At one o’clock the sheets of paper slid under my door.","半夜一点钟，稿纸从我的房门底下塞了进来。"
"I read that story, and I jumped up, late as it was, with a whoop of joy.","我读着那篇小说，尽管夜深了，我还是欢呼一声跳了起来。"
"Old Pettit had done it.","老佩蒂特做到了。"
"Just as though it lay there, red and bleeding, a woman’s heart was written into the lines.","字里行间写出了一个女人鲜红的、流着血的心，就像活生生的一样。"
"You couldn’t see the joining, but art, exquisite art, and pulsing nature had been combined into a love story that took you by the throat like the quinsy.","你看不到丝毫的拼凑，但艺术、绝妙的艺术，同活生生的天性一起融入这爱情故事中，像发炎化脓的扁桃体似的扼住你的喉咙，让你透不过气来。"
"I broke into Pettit’s room and beat him on the back and called him names—names high up in the galaxy of the immortals that we admired.","我冲进佩蒂特的房间，拍着他的背，称他为我们仰慕的、不朽的天才作家。"
"And Pettit yawned and begged to be allowed to sleep.","佩蒂特打着哈欠，求我让他睡觉。"
"On the morrow, I dragged him to an editor.","第二天，我拉他去见一位编辑。"
"The great man read, and, rising, gave Pettit his hand.","那位大人物看了小说，站起来，同佩蒂特握手。"
"That was a decoration, a wreath of bay, and a guarantee of rent.","那意味着勋章、桂冠和房租的保证。"
"And then old Pettit smiled slowly.","然后，老佩蒂特慢慢地笑了。"
"I call him Gentleman Pettit now to myself.","我心里现在开始称他为佩蒂特阁下了。"
"It’s a miserable name to give a man, but it sounds better than it looks in print.","这个名字不怎么样，但听起来比印出来好多了。"
"“I see,” said old Pettit, as he took up his story and began tearing it into small strips.","“我懂了，”老佩蒂特一边说，一边拿起小说的底稿，把它撕成一条一条的，"
"“I see the game now.","“游戏规则我懂了。"
"You can’t write with ink, and you can’t write with your own heart’s blood, but you can write with the heart’s blood of some one else.","写作不能靠墨水，也不能用自己的心血，而是要用别人心里的血。"
"You have to be a cad before you can be an artist.","你得先做卑鄙小人，然后才可以成为艺术家。"
"Well, I am for old Alabam and the Major’s store.","好了，我要回亚拉巴马，回少校的杂货店去了。"
"Have you got a light, Old Hoss?”","你有火吗，老霍斯？”"
"I went with Pettit to the dêpôt and died hard.","我陪佩蒂特去车站，就要死心了。"
"“Shakespeare’s sonnets?”","“莎士比亚的十四行诗呢？”"
"I blurted, making a last stand.","我做了最后一次挣扎，突然说道，"
"“How about him?”","“他怎么样？”"
"“A cad,” said Pettit.","“卑鄙小人，”佩蒂特说，"
"“They give it to you, and you sell it—love, you know.","“别人给予你，你却把它——把爱情卖掉，你知道的。"
"I’d rather sell ploughs for father.”","我宁愿回去帮我爸卖犁头。”"
"“But,” I protested, “you are reversing the decision of the world’s greatest—”","“可是，”我抗议道，“你对抗的决定可是来自世界上最伟大的——”"
"“Good-by, Old Hoss,” said Pettit.","“再见了，老霍斯。”佩蒂特说。"
"“Critics,” I continued.","“评论家，”我接着说，"
"“But—say—if the Major can use a fairly good salesman and book-keeper down there in the store, let me know, will you?”","“但是——如果少校的杂货店需要一个相当好的推销员和记账员的话，告诉我一声，好吗？”"

