"书名多尔蒂的启发（欧·亨利经典短篇小说）短简介“大玩家”多尔蒂为何一夕间性情突然改变？男主人公多尔蒂结婚数年间，对妻子视而不见，一次偶然的社交场合却让他蓦然发现妻子的美丽与优秀。欧·亨利的短篇小说《多尔蒂的启发》生动幽默地讲述了“大玩家”多尔蒂如何突然发现妻子的魅力，继而转变性情的故事。长简介欧·亨利的短篇小说《多尔蒂的启发》讲述了“大玩家”多尔蒂与他妻子之间的故事。故事伊始便罗列了男主人公作为“大玩家”种种酷爱社交却忽视妻子的表现，直到某一天，妻子请求与他共同外出就餐。一路上玩伴的艳羡目光和社交场合上显贵们频频的殷勤让“大玩家”蓦然发现，自己身边原来一直以来都有着如此美丽的珍宝，而却被自己忽视多年。如欧·亨利的其他小说一样，《多尔蒂的启发》弥漫着浓郁的美国风情，故事的发生地也在作者最擅长描写的曼哈顿，多尔蒂先生只是万千“大玩家”中的代表，故事最后他放弃了返回平日里必去的餐馆而选择和妻子呆在一起，其实也象征着他最终对曾经固守的沉旧观念的摒弃。关键字多尔蒂的启发；欧·亨利；外研社编译组；短篇；曼哈顿；玩家；妻子；百老汇大街；餐馆；晚餐作者（美）欧·亨利作者简介欧·亨利（1862—1910），美国著名批判现实主义作家、世界三大短篇小说大师之一，被誉为“曼哈顿桂冠散文作家”和“美国现代短篇小说之父”。他的一生富于传奇性，做过药房学徒、会计、新闻记者、银行出纳等多个工作。其作品构思新颖，语言诙谐，人物众多，富于生活情趣，尤以出人意料的结尾闻名，被誉为“美国生活的幽默百科全书”。书评当我轻松地对待可笑的事物时，我也是严肃地对待它。——马克思“大玩家”多尔蒂为何一夕间性情突然改变？"
"Dougherty’s Eye-Opener","多尔蒂的启发"
"by O. Henry ","作者：欧·亨利"
"Big Jim Dougherty was a sport.","大吉姆·多尔蒂是个玩家。"
"He belonged to that race of men.","他属于那种人。"
"In Manhattan it is a distinct race.","曼哈顿的玩家是一个与众不同的人种。"
"They are the Caribs of the North—strong, artful, self-sufficient, clannish, honorable within the laws of their race, holding in lenient contempt neighboring tribes who bow to the measure of Society’s tapeline.","他们是北方的加勒比人——强壮、狡猾、傲慢、拉帮结派，忠于自己族群的法规，蔑视遵循社会习俗的邻族部落。"
"I refer, of course, to the titled nobility of sportdom.","当然，我指的是玩家中有头衔的贵族。"
"There is a class which bears as a qualifying adjective the substantive belonging to a wind instrument made of a cheap and base metal.","还有一类人带有作为限定形容词使用的名词，而这名词是用廉价的贱金属制造的吹奏乐器所特有的。"
"But the tin mines of Cornwall never produced the material for manufacturing descriptive nomenclature for “Big Jim” Dougherty.","然而康沃尔的锡矿却从来没有生产过能为“大吉姆”多尔蒂命名的材料。"
"The habitat of the sport is the lobby or the outside corner of certain hotels and combination restaurants and cafés.","玩家的聚集处是一些旅馆、餐馆酒吧的休息室以及外面的角落。"
"They are mostly men of different sizes, running from small to large; but they are unanimous in the possession of a recently shaven, blue-black cheek and chin and dark overcoats (in season) with black velvet collars.","他们大多是男人，高矮胖瘦不一，面颊和下巴都刚刮完，黑里泛青，都穿着带有黑丝绒的领子的深色大衣。"
"Of the domestic life of the sport little is known.","我们对于这些玩家的家庭生活知之甚少。"
"It has been said that Cupid and Hymen sometimes take a hand in the game and copper the queen of hearts to lose.","据说爱神和婚姻之神有时候也在游戏中插一手，让红心皇后退居次席。"
"Daring theorists have averred—not content with simply saying—that a sport often contracts a spouse, and even incurs descendants.","大胆的理论家曾断言——不只是随便说说——玩家也常常会娶妻，甚至生子。"
"Sometimes he sits in the game of politics; and then at chowder picnics there is a revelation of a Mrs. Sport and little Sports in glazed hats with tin pails.","有时候他也玩政治游戏，于是，在杂烩野餐聚会上便出现了玩家太太和戴着鲜艳帽子、拿着锡罐的玩家小孩。"
"But mostly the sport is Oriental.","然而玩家的想法大多是东方式的。"
"He believes his women-folk should not be too patent.","他认为女流之辈不应该抛头露面。"
"Somewhere behind grilles or flower-ornamented fire escapes they await him.","而是应该在格栅后或在摆着鲜花的消防梯上的某个地方等他。"
"There, no doubt, they tread on rugs from Teheran and are diverted by the bulbul and play upon the dulcimer and feed upon sweetmeats.","她们一定会踩在那里的德黑兰地毯上，听听夜莺的啼唱，弹弹扬琴，吃吃糖果解闷。"
"But away from his home the sport is an integer.","走出家门，玩家就是一个完整的个体了。"
"He does not, as men of other races in Manhattan do, become the convoy in his unoccupied hours of fluttering laces and high heels that tick off delectably the happy seconds of the evening parade.","与曼哈顿其他族群的男人不同，他的闲暇时光并没有花在陪伴飘舞的蕾丝花带和傍晚散步时高跟鞋那愉快的笃笃声上。"
"He herds with his own race at corners, and delivers a commentary in his Carib lingo upon the passing show.","他会同本族群的人聚在角落里，用加勒比隐语对过路的行人品头论足。"
"“Big Jim” Dougherty had a wife, but he did not wear a button portrait of her upon his lapel.","“大吉姆”多尔蒂有妻子，但他上衣的翻领上并没佩戴妻子的小圆像章。"
"He had a home in one of those brown-stone, iron-railed streets on the west side that look like a recently excavated bowling alley of Pompeii.","他的家在西区一条街道的褐色房子里，这条街上家家都装着铁栅栏，看上去就像是刚刚挖掘出来的庞贝古城的保龄球道。"
"To this home of his Mr. Dougherty repaired each night when the hour was so late as to promise no further diversion in the arch domains of sport.","每当夜深人静，当玩家圈子里再没有更多的消遣时，多尔蒂先生才回到他的这个家。"
"By that time the occupant of the monogamistic harem would be in dreamland, the bulbul silenced and the hour propitious for slumber.","此时，住在一夫一妻制的后宫里的人早已进入了梦乡，夜莺也不再歌唱，正是安睡的好时候。"
"“Big Jim” always arose at twelve, meridian, for breakfast, and soon afterward he would return to the rendezvous of his “crowd.”","“大吉姆”总是中午十二点起来吃早餐，过不了一会儿又要去同他的那帮人会合。"
"He was always vaguely conscious that there was a Mrs. Dougherty.","他很少意识到有位多尔蒂太太的存在。"
"He would have received without denial the charge that the quiet, neat, comfortable little woman across the table at home was his wife.","他从不否认家中坐在桌子对面那个文静、整洁、惬意的小妇人是他的妻子。"
"In fact, he remembered pretty well that they had been married for nearly four years.","其实，他记得很清楚，他们结婚将近四年了。"
"She would often tell him about the cute tricks of Spot, the canary, and the light-haired lady that lived in the window of the flat across the street.","她会常常把广播里介绍的小窍门、金丝雀的情况以及街对面公寓窗口里那个浅头发女人的事情讲给他听。"
"“Big Jim” Dougherty even listened to this conversation of hers sometimes.","“大吉姆”多尔蒂有的时候甚至也听听她说的话。"
"He knew that she would have a nice dinner ready for him every evening at seven when he came for it.","他知道每晚七点钟他回家吃饭时，她总是准备好了可口的饭菜。"
"She sometimes went to matinées, and she had a talking machine with six dozen records.","她偶尔去看看日场演出，她有一台留声机和六七十张唱片。"
"Once when her Uncle Amos blew in on a wind from up-state, she went with him to the Eden Musée.","有一次，她的阿莫斯叔叔从纽约州北部不期而至，她陪他去了伊甸博物馆。"
"Surely these things were diversions enough for any woman.","对于任何一个女人来说，这些当然都是很好的消遣。"
"One afternoon Mr. Dougherty finished his breakfast, put on his hat and got away fairly for the door.","一天下午，多尔蒂先生吃过早餐，戴上帽子，理所当然地朝门口走去。"
"When his hand was on the knob be heard his wife’s voice.","当他的手碰到门把时，他听到他妻子说话了。"
"“Jim,” she said, firmly, “I wish you would take me out to dinner this evening.","“吉姆，”她毫不含糊地说，“希望今晚你带我去外面吃饭。"
"It has been three years since you have been outside the door with me.”","你已经三年没和我一起出过门了。”"
"“Big Jim” was astounded.","“大吉姆”大吃一惊。"
"She had never asked anything like this before.","她以前从没提过类似的要求。"
"It had the flavour of a totally new proposition.","她的建议带有全新的意味。"
"But he was a game sport.","但他是一个勇敢的玩家。"
"“All right,” he said.","“好吧。”他说，"
"“You be ready when I come at seven.","“我七点到家，你准备好。"
"None of this ‘wait two minutes till I primp an hour or two’ kind of business, now, Dele.”","不要有那种‘等两分钟’，结果磨蹭了一两个小时的情况，迪莉。”"
"“I’ll be ready,” said his wife, calmly.","“我会准备好的。”他的妻子平静地说。"
"At seven she descended the stone steps in the Pompeian bowling alley at the side of “Big Jim” Dougherty.","七点钟，她和“大吉姆”一起走下庞贝保龄球道的石阶。"
"She wore a dinner gown made of a stuff that the spiders must have woven, and of a color that a twilight sky must have contributed.","她穿着一套颜色像曙暮天空、料子薄如蝉翼的晚装。"
"A light coat with many admirably unnecessary capes and adorably inutile ribbons floated downward from her shoulders.","薄薄的上衣肩部垂下许多美妙但却多余的饰带。"
"Fine feathers do make fine birds; and the only reproach in the saying is for the man who refuses to give up his earnings to the ostrich-tip industry.","鸟美在羽毛，这句谚语指责的只是那些不愿拿出积蓄投资鸵鸟毛行业的男人。"
"“Big Jim” Dougherty was troubled.","“大吉姆”感到困惑。"
"There was a being at his side whom he did not know.","身边的是他并不熟悉的人。"
"He thought of the sober-hued plumage that this bird of paradise was accustomed to wear in her cage, and this winged revelation puzzled him.","他想起这只天堂鸟平日在笼中的颜色暗淡的羽毛，如此神速的变化令他困惑不解。"
"In some way she reminded him of the Delia Cullen that he had married four years before.","不知怎的，她让他想起四年前和他结婚的迪莉娅·卡伦。"
"Shyly and rather awkwardly he stalked at her right hand.","他十分笨拙地悄悄走到她右边。"
"“After dinner I’ll take you back home, Dele,” said Mr. Dougherty, “and then I’ll drop back up to Seltzer’s with the boys.","“吃完晚饭我送你回家，迪莉，”多尔蒂先生说道，“然后我再回赛尔策酒吧找兄弟们。"
"You can have swell chuck to-night if you want it.","今晚你可以尽情地大吃一顿。"
"I made a winning on Anaconda yesterday; so you can go as far as you like.”","昨天我在蟒蛇酒吧赢了一笔钱，所以，你爱吃什么就点什么。”"
"Mr. Dougherty had intended to make the outing with his unwonted wife an inconspicuous one.","多尔蒂先生本想低调处理这次同不熟悉的妻子的外出。"
"Uxoriousness was a weakness that the precepts of the Caribs did not countenance.","溺爱妻子是加勒比人戒律中不赞同的一个弱点。"
"If any of his friends of the track, the billiard cloth or the square circle had wives they had never complained of the fact in public.","他在赛马场、弹子房或拳击场的朋友即使有妻子，他们也从不公开抱怨这件事情。"
"There were a number of table d’hôte places on the cross streets near the broad and shining way; and to one of these he had purposed to escort her, so that the bushel might not be removed from the light of his domesticity.","百老汇大街附近的横街上有好几家快餐店，他本来打算陪她去其中的一家，免得过于招摇。"
"But while on the way Mr. Dougherty altered those intentions.","半路上，多尔蒂先生改了主意。"
"He had been casting stealthy glances at his attractive companion and he was seized with the conviction that she was no selling plater.","他偷偷朝迷人的伴侣看了几眼，深信她完全拿得出手。"
"He resolved to parade with his wife past Seltzer’s café, where at this time a number of his tribe would be gathered to view the daily evening procession.","他决定和妻子大大方方地从赛尔策酒吧前走过，每天这个时候，他那帮人中总有几个聚在那里观察傍晚时分逛街的男男女女。"
"Yes; and he would take her to dine at Hoogley’s, the swellest slow-lunch warehouse on the line, he said to himself.","是的，他要带她去那家最高级的胡格利餐馆用餐，他暗忖道。"
"The congregation of smooth-faced tribal gentlemen were on watch at Seltzer’s.","部族里那帮脸刮得很光洁的绅士正守候在赛尔策酒吧里。"
"As Mr. Dougherty and his reorganized Delia passed they stared, momentarily petrified, and then removed their hats—a performance as unusual to them as was the astonishing innovation presented to their gaze by “Big Jim”.","当多尔蒂先生和打扮一新的迪莉亚从他们眼前经过时，他们立时惊呆了，纷纷脱帽致意——他们难得这样彬彬有礼，就像“大吉姆”难得让他们看到这样惊人的景象一样。"
"On the latter gentleman’s impassive face there appeared a slight flicker of triumph—a faint flicker, no more to be observed than the expression called there by the draft of little casino to a four-card spade flush.","“大吉姆”不动声色的脸上微微显出一丝得意的神情——这种神情只有在赌场拿到一副黑桃同花顺时才能看得到。"
"Hoogley’s was animated.","胡格利餐厅生意兴隆。"
"Electric lights shone as, indeed, they were expected to do.","灯光通明。"
"And the napery, the glassware and the flowers also meritoriously performed the spectacular duties required of them.","桌布、餐巾、玻璃器皿和鲜花也都令人啧啧称赞。"
"The guests were numerous, well-dressed and gay.","客人很多，个个衣冠楚楚，谈笑风生。"
"A waiter—not necessarily obsequious—conducted “Big Jim” Dougherty and his wife to a table.","一个侍者举止得体地把“大吉姆”多尔蒂和他的妻子带到一张餐桌前。"
"“Play that menu straight across for what you like, Dele,” said “Big Jim.”","“看看菜单上的东西，喜欢什么点什么，迪莉，”“大吉姆”说道，"
"“It’s you for a trough of the gilded oats to-night.","“今晚你随便吃。"
"It strikes me that maybe we’ve been sticking too fast to home fodder.”","我突然觉得我们家常便饭吃得太多了。”"
"“Big Jim’s” wife gave her order.","“大吉姆”的妻子点了菜。"
"He looked at her with respect.","他钦佩地看着她。"
"She had mentioned truffles; and he had not known that she knew what truffles were.","她提到了块菌；他以前从不知道她居然了解块菌是什么东西。"
"From the wine list she designated an appropriate and desirable brand.","她在酒水单中挑选了一种恰当而又令人满意的牌子。"
"He looked at her with some admiration.","他颇为赏识地看着她。"
"She was beaming with the innocent excitement that woman derives from the exercise of her gregariousness.","她脸上洋溢着那种女人从社交活动中所得到的纯真的兴奋。"
"She was talking to him about a hundred things with animation and delight.","她兴致勃勃地同他谈论着各种各样的话题。"
"And as the meal progressed her cheeks, colorless from a life indoors, took on a delicate flush.","吃着吃着，她那因为长期呆在室内而显得苍白的脸颊上泛起了红晕。"
"“Big Jim” looked around the room and saw that none of the women there had her charm.","“大吉姆”环顾四周，发现没有一个女人如她一般妩媚。"
"And then he thought of the three years she had suffered immurement, uncomplaining, and a flush of shame warmed him, for he carried fair play as an item in his creed.","当他想到三年来她足不出户，但从不抱怨，他不禁羞愧地红了脸，因为他的信条之一就是公平。"
"But when the Honorable Patrick Corrigan, leader in Dougherty’s district and a friend of his, saw them and came over to the table, matters got to the three-quarter stretch.","当多尔蒂选区的领袖、他的朋友之一帕特里克·科里根议员看见他们并朝他们的桌子走过来时，情况的发展达到了高潮。"
"The Honorable Patrick was a gallant man, both in deeds and words.","帕特里克议员是一位在行动和言词方面都喜欢向女人献殷勤的人。"
"As for the Blarney stone, his previous actions toward it must have been pronounced.","就布拉尼石而言，他以前的行动肯定已经证实了这点。"
"Heavy damages for breach of promise could surely have been obtained had the Blarney stone seen fit to sue the Honorable Patrick.","假如布拉尼石觉得有必要控告帕特里克议员严重违背承诺的话，肯定能获得巨额赔偿。"
"“Jimmy, old man!” he called; he clapped Dougherty on the back; he shone like a midday sun upon Delia.","“吉米，老朋友！”他拍拍多尔蒂的后背；然后便像中午的太阳似的盯着迪莉亚。"
"“Honorable Mr. Corrigan—Mrs. Dougherty,” said “Big Jim.”","“克里根议员先生——多尔蒂太太。”“大吉姆”介绍道。"
"The Honorable Patrick became a fountain of entertainment and admiration.","帕特里克议员滔滔不绝地赞美起迪莉亚来。"
"The waiter had to fetch a third chair for him; he made another at the table, and the wineglasses were refilled.","侍者不得不去再搬一把椅子给他；于是，他和他们同桌坐下，酒杯也重新斟满。"
"“You selfish old rascal!” he exclaimed, shaking an arch finger at “Big Jim,” “to have kept Mrs. Dougherty a secret from us.”","“你这个自私的老家伙！”他朝“大吉姆”晃着手指大声说道，“一直金屋藏娇，不让我们见见多尔蒂太太。”"
"And then “Big Jim” Dougherty, who was no talker, sat dumb, and saw the wife who had dined every evening for three years at home, blossom like a fairy flower.","“大吉姆”多尔蒂不善言谈，默默地坐在一旁，看着三年来每晚同他一起吃饭的妻子像童话里的鲜花一样绽放着。"
"Quick, witty, charming, full of light and ready talk, she received the experienced attack of the Honorable Patrick on the field of repartee and surprised, vanquished, delighted him.","她机智、风趣、妩媚、活力四射而且非常健谈，善于应对经验老到的帕特里克议员的进攻，这不禁使他大为惊讶，令他心悦诚服。"
"She unfolded her long-closed petals and around her the room became a garden.","她舒展开封闭已久的花瓣，她周围的空间变成了一座花园。"
"They tried to include “Big Jim” in the conversation, but he was without a vocabulary.","他们试图把“大吉姆”拉进谈话中，但他却无话可说。"
"And then a stray bunch of politicians and good fellows who lived for sport came into the room.","这时几个政界的人和玩家朋友走进了餐厅。"
"They saw “Big Jim” and the leader, and over they came and were made acquainted with Mrs. Dougherty.","他们看到“大吉姆”和议员，便走过来，还被引荐给多尔蒂太太。"
"And in a few minutes she was holding a salon.","不出几分钟的时间，她仿佛在举行一个名流集会。"
"Half a dozen men surrounded her, courtiers all, and six found her capable of charming.","六个男人围着她，大献殷勤，而且他们都发现她魅力无穷。"
"“Big Jim” sat, grim, and kept saying to himself: “Three years, three years!”","“大吉姆”干坐着，一直在想：“三年啊，三年啊！”"
"The dinner came to an end.","晚餐结束了。"
"The Honorable Patrick reached for Mrs. Dougherty’s cloak; but that was a matter of action instead of words, and Dougherty’s big hand got it first by two seconds.","帕特里克议员伸手替多尔蒂太太拿上衣；那已经不是言词而是行动了，多尔蒂的大手抢先两秒钟拿到了上衣。"
"While the farewells were being said at the door the Honorable Patrick smote Dougherty mightily between the shoulders.","在门口告别时，帕特里克议员重重地拍了拍多尔蒂的后背。"
"“Jimmy, me boy,” he declared, in a giant whisper, “the madam is a jewel of the first water.","“吉米老弟，”他悄悄地大声嚷道，“太太真的是极品呀。"
"Ye’re a lucky dog.”","你真是个幸运的家伙。”"
"“Big Jim” walked homeward with his wife.","“大吉姆”同他妻子一起步行回家。"
"She seemed quite as pleased with the lights and show windows in the streets as with the admiration of the men in Hoogley’s.","街上的灯光和橱窗，同胡格利餐厅里那些男人对她的赞美一样，令她高兴不已。"
"As they passed Seltzer’s they heard the sound of many voices in the café.","他们经过赛尔策酒吧时，听到里面人声鼎沸。"
"The boys would be starting the drinks around now and discussing past performances.","兄弟们应该已经开始一轮一轮地喝酒了，一边还讨论着当天的业绩。"
"At the door of their home Delia paused.","迪莉亚在家门口停了下来。"
"The pleasure of the outing radiated softly from her countenance.","这次外出的愉快使她脸上容光焕发。"
"She could not hope for Jim of evenings, but the glory of this one would lighten her lonely hours for a long time.","她不能再指望吉姆晚上陪她，但是今晚的辉煌将会在以后很长时间里给她的孤寂带来光明。"
"“Thank you for taking me out, Jim,” she said, gratefully.","“谢谢你带我出去，吉姆，”她感激地说道，"
"“You’ll be going back up to Seltzer’s now, of course.”","“你现在当然要回赛尔策酒吧去了吧。”"
"“To—with Seltzer’s,” said “Big Jim,” emphatically.","“让赛尔策见鬼去吧，”“大吉姆”重重地说道，"
"“And d—Pat Corrigan!","“该死的帕特里克·科里根！"
"Does he think I haven’t got any eyes?”","他以为我没有眼力吗？”"
"And the door closed behind both of them.","他们两个关上了房门。"

