"书名牧场上的博皮普夫人（欧·亨利经典短篇小说）短简介欧·亨利短篇小说《牧场上的博皮普夫人》中的奥克塔维亚，失去了可能获得的遗产，也厌倦了这座让她迷失的都市。她来到她唯一拥有的牧场，重新开始了生活。返回了大自然，她的天性得到了自由和新鲜空气。在这里，她不仅找到了爱情，也得到了人生的幸福。长简介欧·亨利短篇小说《牧场上的博皮普夫人》中的奥克塔维亚，失去了可能获得的遗产，一文不名。她并不是拜金女，也不艳羡浮华的生活。她终于明白自己已经厌倦了这座让她迷失的都市。于是她来到乡下她唯一拥有的牧场，重新开始了生活，还遇到了自小认识，曾擦肩而过的男子。返回了大自然，她的天性得到了自由和新鲜空气。她不仅找回了爱情，也得到了人生的幸福。关键字牧场上的博皮普夫人；欧·亨利；外研社编译组；短篇；牧场；爱情；自由；手套；自然作者（美）欧·亨利作者简介欧·亨利（1862—1910），美国最著名的短篇小说家之一，曾被评论界誉为曼哈顿桂冠散文作家和美国现代短篇小说之父。善于描写美国社会尤其是纽约百姓的生活。他的作品构思新颖，语言诙谐，结局常常出人意料；他又因描写了众多的人物，富于生活情趣，被誉为“美国生活的幽默百科全书”。书评他用这“含泪的微笑”给我们带来生活的启迪。"
"Madame Bo-Peep, of the Ranches ","牧场上的博皮普夫人"
"by O. Henry","作者：欧·亨利"
"“Aunt Ellen,” said Octavia, cheerfully, as she threw her black kid gloves carefully at the dignified Persian cat on the window-seat, “I’m a pauper.”","“埃伦姑妈，”奥克塔维亚将自己的黑色小山羊皮手套小心地扔到窗边那只名贵的波斯猫身上，轻快地说道，“我是个穷光蛋！”"
"“You are so extreme in your statements, Octavia, dear,” said Aunt Ellen, mildly, looking up from her paper.","“你说得太过啦，我亲爱的奥克塔维亚。”埃伦姑妈不再看报纸，抬起眼睛温和地对她说道，"
"“If you find yourself temporarily in need of some small change for bonbons, you will find my purse in the drawer of the writing desk.”","“如果你暂时想要些零钱去买糖果，就自己去写字台的抽屉里找找我的钱包。”"
"Octavia Beaupree removed her hat and seated herself on a footstool near her aunt’s chair, clasping her hands about her knees.","奥克塔维亚•博普雷摘下帽子，在她姑妈椅子旁边的脚凳上坐下，双手环抱住膝盖。"
"Her slim and flexible figure, clad in a modish mourning costume, accommodated itself easily and gracefully to the trying position.","她身材苗条柔软，穿着时髦的丧服，轻松而优雅地适应了这种费劲的姿势。"
"Her bright and youthful face, with its pair of sparkling, life-enamoured eyes, tried to compose itself to the seriousness that the occasion seemed to demand.","她的容貌耀眼而又青春，她的眼睛闪闪发光而又充满生命力。她极力装出与这个场合相适应的严肃表情。"
"“You good auntie, it isn’t a case of bonbons; it is abject, staring, unpicturesque poverty, with ready-made clothes, gasolined gloves, and probably one o’clock dinners all waiting with the traditional wolf at the door.","“我的好姑妈，这不是买不买糖果的问题。这是一种绝望无助、招人注目而又毫不独特的赤贫。你只能穿现成的衣服，手套也是用汽油除过污的，晚餐可能要到凌晨一点才能吃到，门外还有等待的饿狼。"
"I’ve just come from my lawyer, auntie, and, ‘Please, ma’am, I ain’t got nothink ’t all.","我刚从律师那儿回来，姑妈。‘行行好吧，夫人，我什么都没有。"
"Flowers, lady?","女士，买花吗？"
"Buttonhole, gentleman?","先生，买朵花别在纽扣孔里吧？"
"Pencils, sir, three for five, to help a poor widow?’","先生，买支铅笔吧，三块五支，就当帮帮我这个穷寡妇吧。’"
"Do I do it nicely, auntie, or, as a bread-winner accomplishment, were my lessons in elocution entirely wasted?”","拿这种谋生的技能来说，我做得好吗？姑妈，我的演讲课没有白上吧？”"
"“Do be serious, my dear,” said Aunt Ellen, letting her paper fall to the floor, “long enough to tell me what you mean.","“亲爱的，严肃点儿，”埃伦姑妈说，手里的报纸掉到了地上，“我已经明白你到底想要说什么了。"
"Colonel Beaupree’s estate—”","博普雷上校的产业——”"
"“Colonel Beaupree’s estate,” interrupted Octavia, emphasizing her words with appropriate dramatic gestures, “is of Spanish castellar architecture.","奥克塔维亚打断了姑妈的话，用戏剧性的手势强调了一下她要说的：“博普雷上校的产业就是海市蜃楼。"
"Colonel Beaupree’s resources are—wind.","博普雷上校的财产就是——空穴来风。"
"Colonel Beaupree’s stocks are—water.","博普雷上校的资本就是——镜花水月。"
"Colonel Beaupree’s income is—all in.","博普雷上校的收入就是——南柯一梦。"
"The statement lacks the legal technicalities to which I have been listening for an hour, but that is what it means when translated.”","我刚刚说的那些没有用到我听了一小时的法律术语，但是翻译出来就是这个意思。”"
"“Octavia!”","“奥克塔维亚！”"
"Aunt Ellen was now visibly possessed by consternation.","埃伦姑妈现在明显有些慌了，"
"“I can hardly believe it.","“我简直不敢相信，"
"And it was the impression that he was worth a million.","他给人的印象总是腰缠万贯。"
"And the De Peysters themselves introduced him!”","还是德佩斯特尔家给介绍的呢！”"
"Octavia rippled out a laugh, and then became properly grave.","奥克塔维亚一下子笑了出来，随即又恢复了应有的严肃。"
"“De mortuis nil, auntie—not even the rest of it.","“逝者已矣，姑妈，后半句都用不上。"
"The dear old colonel—what a gold brick he was, after all!","亲爱的老上校——说到底他就是个懒汉！"
"I paid for my bargain fairly—I’m all here, am I not?—items: eyes, fingers, toes, youth, old family, unquestionable position in society as called for in the contract—no wild-cat stock here.”","我从来都是公平要价的——我所有的一切都在这儿了，不是吗？契约中需要的项目：眼睛、手指、脚趾、青春、古老的家族、毋庸置疑的社会地位——所有的都在这儿了，不掺半点儿水分。”"
"Octavia picked up the morning paper from the floor.","奥克塔维亚从地上捡起晨报。"
"“But I’m not going to ‘squeal’—isn’t that what they call it when you rail at Fortune because you’ve, lost the game?”","“但是我不会‘怨天尤人’——你因为吃亏而咒骂命运的时候，他们不就是用那个词来形容你？”"
"She turned the pages of the paper calmly.","她平静地翻着报纸。"
"“‘Stock market’—no use for that.","“‘股市’——没用了。"
"‘Society’s doings’—that’s done.","‘社会活动’——没戏了。"
"Here is my page—the wish column.","招聘信息——这才是我的地盘。"
"A Van Dresser could not be said to ‘want’ for anything, of course.","当然，作为范德雷瑟家的一员，不能去应聘任何岗位。"
"‘Chamber-maids, cooks, canvassers, stenographers—’”","‘女佣、厨师、推销员、速写员——’”"
"“Dear,” said Aunt Ellen, with a little tremor in her voice, “please do not talk in that way.","埃伦姑妈声音微颤着说道：“亲爱的，别那样说。"
"Even if your affairs are in so unfortunate a condition, there is my three thousand—”","即使你处在如此穷困的境况，也还有我的三千——”"
"Octavia sprang up lithely, and deposited a smart kiss on the delicate cheek of the prim little elderly maid.","奥克塔维亚轻盈地起身，在这个拘谨的小老太太柔美的脸颊上轻快地一吻。"
"“Blessed auntie, your three thousand is just sufficient to insure your Hyson to be free from willow leaves and keep the Persian in sterilized cream.","“我的好姑妈，你那三千美元只能保证你自个儿喝上不掺柳叶的熙春茶，保证那只波斯猫能吃上无菌奶油。"
"I know I’d be welcome, but I prefer to strike bottom like Beelzebub rather than hang around like the Peri listening to the music from the side entrance.","我知道人们愿意帮助我，但是我宁愿像恶魔般堕落底层，也不愿像佩里一样整天游荡在侧门边上听音乐。"
"I’m going to earn my own living.","我要自力更生。"
"There’s nothing else to do.","没有比这更重要的了。"
"I’m a—Oh, oh, oh!—I had forgotten.","我是一个——噢，噢，噢！——我忘记了。"
"There’s one thing saved from the wreck.","还有一颗倾巢之下的完卵。"
"It’s a corral—no, a ranch in—let me see—Texas: an asset, dear old Mr. Bannister called it.","是一个栅栏——不，是一个牧场，在——让我想想——得克萨斯州：亲爱的班尼斯特老先生管它叫一份资产。"
"How pleased he was to show me something he could describe as unencumbered!","当他跟我提及这个没有产权负担的东西的时候，他是多么欢悦啊！"
"I’ve a description of it among those stupid papers he made me bring away with me from his office.","在他硬让我从他办公室拿走的一堆愚蠢的文件中，有一份关于这个牧场的描述。"
"I’ll try to find it.”","我去找出来。”"
"Octavia found her shopping-bag, and drew from it a long envelope filled with typewritten documents.","奥克塔维亚找到了她的购物袋，从里面拿出了一个长长的信封，里面塞满了各种打印文件。"
"“A ranch in Texas,” sighed Aunt Ellen.","“得克萨斯州的牧场，”埃伦姑妈叹息道，"
"“It sounds to me more like a liability than an asset.","“听上去更像是一笔负债，而不是财产。"
"Those are the places where the centipedes are found, and cowboys, and fandangos.”","那些地方满是蜈蚣、牛仔和西部舞会。”"
"“‘The Rancho de las Sombras,’” read Octavia from a sheet of violently purple typewriting, “‘is situated one hundred and ten miles southeast of San Antonio, and thirty-eight miles from its nearest railroad station, Nopal, on the I. and G. N. Ranch, consists of 7,680 acres of well-watered land, with title conferred by State patents, and twenty-two sections, or 14,080 acres, partly under yearly running lease and partly bought under State’s twenty-year-purchase act.","“‘树阴牧场’，”奥克塔维亚照着一张夸张的紫色印刷单子读道，“‘位于圣安东尼奥东南方向一百一十英里处，距最近的火车站——埃其纳牧场的诺帕尔车站三十八英里。牧场有七千六百八十英亩灌溉良好的土地，是与州政府签的地契；其他二十二块地，也就是一万四千零八十英亩的土地中，有一部分按年租收取，另一部分则根据州政府二十年购置法案购买。"
"Eight thousand graded merino sheep, with the necessary equipment of horses, vehicles and general ranch paraphernalia.","八千只上等美利奴羊，配备必要的马匹、交通工具和一般牧场设施。"
"Ranch-house built of brick, with six rooms comfortably furnished according to the requirements of the climate.","牧场房为砖房，六间房都根据气候做了舒适的布置。"
"All within a strong barbed-wire fence.","在整个牧场外围还有一圈牢固的带刺铁丝网。"
"“‘The present ranch manager seems to be competent and reliable, and is rapidly placing upon a paying basis a business that, in other hands, had been allowed to suffer from neglect and misconduct.","“‘现任牧场经理似乎能干又可靠，他接手生意后迅速获取盈利。以前牧场落在别人手里的时候遭到了忽视，管理不善。"
"“‘This property was secured by Colonel Beaupree in a deal with a Western irrigation syndicate, and the title to it seems to be perfect.","“‘这笔财产是由博普雷上校从一个西方灌溉财团的手中洽购的，产权似乎完美无缺。"
"With careful management and the natural increase of land values, it ought to be made the foundation for a comfortable fortune for its owner. ’”","出于细心的打理和土地的自然增值，这个牧场应当是其主人获取一笔稳妥财富的基础。'”"
"When Octavia ceased reading, Aunt Ellen uttered something as near a sniff as her breeding permitted.","奥克塔维亚读完了之后，埃伦姑妈就在她教养的允许范围内不屑地哼了一声。"
"“The prospectus,” she said, with uncompromising metropolitan suspicion, “doesn’t mention the centipedes, or the Indians.","她带着城里人绝不妥协的怀疑语气说道：“这份内容说明书并没有提及蜈蚣或者印第安人。"
"And you never did like mutton, Octavia.","而且你也不喜欢羊肉，奥克塔维亚。"
"I don’t see what advantage you can derive from this—desert.”","我不明白你能从这片——这片沙漠中获得什么好处。”"
"But Octavia was in a trance.","但是奥克塔维亚却恍惚了。"
"Her eyes were steadily regarding something quite beyond their focus.","她的双眼坚定地凝视着焦距以外的一些地方。"
"Her lips were parted, and her face was lighted by the kindling furor of the explorer, the ardent, stirring disquiet of the adventurer.","她张开嘴，脸上闪耀着探险者燃烧的狂热和冒险家的激动不安。"
"Suddenly she clasped her hands together exultantly.","突然，她狂喜地合抱住双手。"
"“The problem solves itself, auntie,” she cried.","“问题解决了，姑妈，”她嚷嚷道，"
"“I’m going to that ranch.","“我要去牧场。"
"I’m going to live on it.","我要靠它谋生。"
"I’m going to learn to like mutton, and even concede the good qualities of centipedes—at a respectful distance.","我要学着喜欢羊肉，甚至承认蜈蚣的优点——当然是在一定距离之外。"
"It’s just what I need.","这就是我要的。"
"It’s a new life that comes when my old one is just ending.","这就是我旧生活结束之际开始的新生活。"
"It’s a release, auntie; it isn’t a narrowing.","这是一种释放，姑妈，不是一条绝路。"
"Think of the gallops over those leagues of prairies, with the wind tugging at the roots of your hair, the coming close to the earth and learning over again the stories of the growing grass and the little wild flowers without names!","试想一下，你若能骑马奔驰在一片片大草原上，让风拂过发梢，贴近自然，重温生机勃勃的小草和无名小野花的故事，"
"Glorious is what it will be.","该有多么美好啊！"
"Shall I be a shepherdess with a Watteau hat, and a crook to keep the bad wolves from the lambs, or a typical Western ranch girl, with short hair, like the pictures of her in the Sunday papers?","我是应该打扮成头戴华托帽、拿着弯钩阻止恶狼靠近羊群的那种牧羊女呢，还是星期日报纸的图片上那种头发短短的典型牧场姑娘？"
"I think the latter.","我想还是第二种吧。"
"And they’ll have my picture, too, with the wild-cats I’ve slain, single-handed, hanging from my saddle horn.","他们也会登我的照片，连同那些被我独自杀死、挂在鞍头的野猫一起刊登。"
"‘From the Four Hundred to the Flocks’ is the way they’ll headline it, and they’ll print photographs of the old Van Dresser mansion and the church where I was married.","他们会这样拟题：‘从上层社会到牧羊女郎’，他们也会登出范德雷瑟家的老宅子和我结婚的教堂的照片。"
"They won’t have my picture, but they’ll get an artist to draw it.","他们不会有我本人的照片，但是他们会请一个画家画一幅。"
"I’ll be wild and woolly, and I’ll grow my own wool.”","画中的我会变得狂放而粗犷，我自己也会更加粗犷。”"
"“Octavia!”","“奥克塔维亚！”"
"Aunt Ellen condensed into the one word all the protests she was unable to utter.","埃伦姑妈将所有不能表达出来的抗议情绪都凝聚在了这一个词里面。"
"“Don’t say a word, auntie.","“别再说了，姑妈。"
"I’m going.","我要去那儿。"
"I’ll see the sky at night fit down on the world like a big butter-dish cover, and I’ll make friends again with the stars that I haven’t had a chat with since I was a wee child.","我要在夜晚看着天空像奶油盘罩子一样盖在整个世界上。我也会与星星再次做朋友，长大以后我就再没跟它们聊过天了。"
"I wish to go.","我想去。"
"I’m tired of all this.","我厌倦了这里所有的一切。"
"I’m glad I haven’t any money.","我很高兴我身无分文。"
"I could bless Colonel Beaupree for that ranch, and forgive him for all his bubbles.","我可以因为这座牧场而祝福博普雷上校，也能原谅他所有的骗局。"
"What if the life will be rough and lonely!","如果生活变得艰辛而孤独那又怎样！"
"I—I deserve it.","我——我活该如此。"
"I shut my heart to everything except that miserable ambition.","除了这个可怜的心愿之外，我别无他想。"
"I—oh, I wish to go away, and forget—forget!”","我——噢，我希望远走高飞，忘掉一切——忘掉一切！“"
"Octavia swerved suddenly to her knees, laid her flushed face in her aunt’s lap, and shook with turbulent sobs.","奥克塔维亚突然转身跪了下去，将自己绯红的脸庞埋在姑妈的膝头，激动地不断啜泣着。"
"Aunt Ellen bent over her, and smoothed the coppery-brown hair.","埃伦姑妈弯下腰，摩挲着她铜棕色的头发。"
"“I didn’t know,” she said, gently; “I didn’t know—that.","“我不知道，”她温柔地说道，“我都不知道——那件事。"
"Who was it, dear?”","是谁呀，亲爱的？”"
"When Mrs. Octavia Beaupree, née Van Dresser, stepped from the train at Nopal, her manner lost, for the moment, some of that easy certitude which had always marked her movements.","当范德雷瑟氏奥克塔维亚•博普雷夫人在诺帕尔下火车时，她暂时失去了一贯从容自信的风范。"
"The town was of recent establishment, and seemed to have been hastily constructed of undressed lumber and flapping canvas.","这座镇子刚建不久，似乎都是用未加工的木材和摇摆的帆布匆忙建成的。"
"The element that had congregated about the station, though not offensively demonstrative, was clearly composed of citizens accustomed to and prepared for rude alarms.","火车站周围的居民虽然看上去并不讨厌，但是很明显，他们都已经习惯了突发事件，并且作好了准备。"
"Octavia stood on the platform, against the telegraph office, and attempted to choose by intuition from the swaggering, straggling string of loungers, the manager of the Rancho de las Sombras, who had been instructed by Mr. Bannister to meet her there.","奥克塔维亚站在月台上，背对着电报局。她试图凭着直觉从一大堆大摇大摆、无所事事的闲人中找到树阴牧场的经理。班尼斯特先生曾吩咐他来接她。"
"That tall, serious, looking, elderly man in the blue flannel shirt and white tie she thought must be he.","她想，那个穿着蓝色法兰绒衬衫，打着白色领带，一本正经的高个子老头一定是经理。"
"But, no; he passed by, removing his gaze from the lady as hers rested on him, according to the Southern custom.","但他不是的。当奥克塔维亚盯着他时，他却按南部的风俗把视线从她身上挪开了，就那样从她身边经过。"
"The manager, she thought, with some impatience at being kept waiting, should have no difficulty in selecting her.","奥克塔维亚等得有些不耐烦了，她想，要找到自己其实也不难。"
"Young women wearing the most recent thing in ash-coloured travelling suits were not so plentiful in Nopal!","毕竟，在诺帕尔，穿着最时髦的灰色旅行装的年轻女人并不多见！"
"Thus keeping a speculative watch on all persons of possible managerial aspect, Octavia, with a catching breath and a start of surprise, suddenly became aware of Teddy Westlake hurrying along the platform in the direction of the train—of Teddy Westlake or his sun-browned ghost in cheviot, boots and leather-girdled hat—Theodore Westlake, Jr., amateur polo (almost) champion, all-round butterfly and cumberer of the soil; but a broader, surer, more emphasized and determined Teddy than the one she had known a year ago when last she saw him.","就在奥克塔维亚用揣测的眼神打量着所有可能是经理的人时，突然她屏住了呼吸，惊讶地看着沿着月台朝火车方向赶来的特迪•韦斯特莱克——或者是一个穿着粗纺厚呢和筒靴、戴着皮箍帽、皮肤晒得黝黑，跟特迪一模一样的人——小西奥多•韦斯特莱克曾是一名业余马球（可以算作）冠军，完全是个登徒浪子，是当地的一大麻烦。但跟她一年前最后一次看到的那个人相比，现在的特迪更加豁达、可靠，也更加突出和坚定了。"
"He perceived Octavia at almost the same time, deflected his course, and steered for her in his old, straightforward way.","他们几乎同时看到了对方。特迪转身直直向她走去，就跟以前一样。"
"Something like awe came upon her as the strangeness of his metamorphosis was brought into closer range; the rich, red-brown of his complexion brought out so vividly his straw-coloured mustache and steel-gray eyes.","当这个变得近乎陌生的人走近奥克塔维亚时，她的心中产生了一种类似畏惧的情感。他那饱满的红褐色皮肤让他淡黄色的胡子和钢灰色的眼睛显得额外突出。　"
"He seemed more grown-up, and, somehow, farther away.","他似乎变得更加成熟了，但不知怎地，也变得更加遥远了。"
"But, when he spoke, the old, boyish Teddy came back again.","但是，当他开口说话时，那个过去孩子气的特迪又回来了。"
"They had been friends from childhood.","他们俩是青梅竹马。"
"“Why, ‘Tave!” he exclaimed, unable to reduce his perplexity to coherence.","“怎么回事，塔维亚！”他惊呼道，困惑得连话都说不清楚，"
"“How—what—when—where?”","“怎么——为什么——什么时候——哪里？”"
"“Train,” said Octavia; “necessity; ten minutes ago; home.","“火车，”奥克塔维亚回答道，“必需品，十分钟前，从家来。"
"Your complexion’s gone, Teddy.","你的肤色变了，特迪。"
"Now, how—what—when—where?”","现在该我问你了。怎么——为什么——何时——哪里？”"
"“I’m working down here,” said Teddy.","“我在这儿工作。”特迪说。"
"He cast side glances about the station as one does who tries to combine politeness with duty.","他朝车站旁边看了几眼，好像要在努力维持礼貌的同时又尽到责任。"
"“You didn’t notice on the train,” he asked, “an old lady with gray curls and a poodle, who occupied two seats with her bundles and quarrelled with the conductor, did you?”","“你在火车上有没有注意到，”他问道，“一个带着狮子狗、留着灰色卷发的老太太，她连同行李占了两个位子，还老跟乘务员吵架，有这么个人吗？”"
"“I think not,” answered Octavia, reflecting.","“我想没有。”奥克塔维亚想了一下回答说。"
"“And you haven’t, by any chance, noticed a big, gray-mustached man in a blue shirt and six-shooters, with little flakes of merino wool sticking in his hair, have you?”","“那你有没有碰巧看到一个长着灰色大胡子的大个儿男子，穿着蓝色衬衫，带着六发式左轮手枪，头发里夹杂着些许美利奴羊毛碎屑？”"
"“Lots of ’em,” said Teddy, with symptoms of mental delirium under the strain.","“这样的人多得很，”特迪说，由于紧张，他有些心绪不安，"
"Do you happen to know any such individual?”","“那你认识这样的人吗？”"
"“No; the description is imaginary.","“不认识，这番描述是我凭空想出来的。"
"Is your interest in the old lady whom you describe a personal one?”","那你感兴趣的那位女士是你认识的么？”"
"“Never saw her in my life.","“我从来没有见过她。"
"She’s painted entirely from fancy.","她完全是我想象出来的。"
"She owns the little piece of property where I earn my bread and butter—the Rancho de las Sombras.","她拥有我赖以生存的那份产业——树阴牧场。"
"I drove up to meet her according to arrangement with her lawyer.”","我依照她律师的安排赶车过来接她。”"
"Octavia leaned against the wall of the telegraph office.","奥克塔维亚倚靠在电报局的墙上。"
"Was this possible?","这可能吗？"
"And didn’t he know?","他还不知道？"
"“Are you the manager of that ranch?” she asked weakly.","“你是那个牧场的经理吗？”她轻声问道。"
"“I am,” said Teddy, with pride.","“我是。”特迪自豪地说。"
"“I am Mrs. Beaupree,” said Octavia faintly; “but my hair never would curl, and I was polite to the conductor.”","“我就是博普雷太太，”奥克特维亚虚弱地说道，“但是我没有卷发，我对乘务员也很礼貌。”"
"For a moment that strange, grown-up look came back, and removed Teddy miles away from her.","在那一瞬间，特迪那种陌生成熟的样子又回来了，让他们之间的距离又隔远了。"
"“I hope you’ll excuse me,” he said, rather awkwardly.","“希望你能见谅，”他非常尴尬地说道，"
"“You see, I’ve been down here in the chaparral a year.","“你知道的，我已经在灌木丛里呆了一年了。"
"I hadn’t heard.","我没有听说关于你的事。"
"Give me your checks, please, and I’ll have your traps loaded into the wagon.","请把寄物牌给我，我帮你把行李运到车上。"
"José will follow with them.","若泽会运行李回去。"
"We travel ahead in the buckboard.”","我们乘马车先走。"
"Seated by Teddy in a feather-weight buckboard, behind a pair of wild, cream-coloured Spanish ponies, Octavia abandoned all thought for the exhilaration of the present.","奥克塔维亚和特迪并排坐在这辆轻便马车中，前面是一对烈性的、奶油色西班牙小马在拉车。她非常高兴，抛开了脑子里所有的念头。"
"They swept out of the little town and down the level road toward the south.","他们渐渐驶出小镇，沿着平坦的道路走向南方。"
"Soon the road dwindled and disappeared, and they struck across a world carpeted with an endless reach of curly mesquite grass.","不久之后，道路就越来越窄，渐渐消失了，然后他们进入了一个满眼满世界都是卷卷的牧豆草的国度。"
"The wheels made no sound.","车轮静静地滚动着。"
"The tireless ponies bounded ahead at an unbroken gallop.","不知疲倦的小马不停向前驰骋着。"
"The temperate wind, made fragrant by thousands of acres of blue and yellow wild flowers, roared gloriously in their ears.","带着千万亩蓝色黄色野花芬芳的煦风在他们的耳旁作响。"
"The motion was aërial, ecstatic, with a thrilling sense of perpetuity in its effect.","他们仿佛飘在空中，心醉神迷，产生了一种永恒的感觉，令人兴奋不已。"
"Octavia sat silent, possessed by a feeling of elemental, sensual bliss.","奥克塔维亚静静地坐着，完全沉浸在欣喜的感觉之中。"
"Teddy seemed to be wrestling with some internal problem.","特迪好像正在心中努力思考一些问题。"
"“I’m going to call you madama,” he announced as the result of his labours.","他考虑后得出的结论就是：“我称呼您为夫人吧。"
"“That is what the Mexicans will call you—they’re nearly all Mexicans on the ranch, you know.","墨西哥人也会这样称呼你——你明白，牧场里几乎全是墨西哥人。"
"That seems to me about the proper thing.”","我觉得这很合适。”"
"“Very well, Mr. Westlake,” said Octavia, primly.","“非常好，韦斯特莱克先生。”奥克塔维亚拘谨地说道。"
"“Oh, now,” said Teddy, in some consternation, “that’s carrying the thing too far, isn’t it?”","“噢，”特迪惊慌地说道，“这样说就太过分了，不是吗？”"
"“Don’t worry me with your beastly etiquette.","“别用你那些该死的礼节让我心烦了。"
"I’m just beginning to live.","我才开始在这里生活。"
"Don’t remind me of anything artificial.","别跟我提任何和自然无关的事情。"
"If only this air could be bottled!","要是能把这些空气用瓶子装起来该多好啊！"
"This much alone is worth coming for.","单单这里的空气就值得我跑一趟了。"
"Oh, look I there goes a deer!”","噢，快看，过去一头鹿！”"
"“Jack-rabbit,” said Teddy, without turning his head.","“那是大野兔。”特迪头也不回地说。"
"“Could I—might I drive?” suggested Octavia, panting, with rose-tinted cheeks and the eye of an eager child.","“我能——我可以驾车吗？”奥克塔维亚喘着气建议说。她双颊泛红，眼睛看上去就跟小孩一样急切。"
"“On one condition.","“只有一个条件。"
"Could I—might I smoke?”","我能——我可以抽烟吗？”"
"“Forever!” cried Octavia, taking the lines with solemn joy.","“永远都行！”奥克塔维亚高兴地接过缰绳，大声说道，"
"“How shall I know which way to drive?”","“我该怎么走？”"
"“Keep her sou’ by sou’east, and all sail set.","“就往南偏东南，全力行驶。"
"You see that black speck on the horizon under that lowermost Gulf cloud?","你看见天边那朵最低的海湾云下的黑色小点没？"
"That’s a group of live-oaks and a landmark.","那是一片橡树，也是一个路标。"
"Steer halfway between that and the little hill to the left.","行驶到那里和左边小山之间就行了。"
"I’ll recite you the whole code of driving rules for the Texas prairies: keep the reins from under the horses’ feet, and swear at ’em frequent.”","我告诉你得克萨斯草原上所有的驾车规则吧：不要让缰绳落在马蹄之下，要经常吆喝马。”"
"“I’m too happy to swear, Ted.","“我太开心，根本没有吆喝的心思，特迪。"
"Oh, why do people buy yachts or travel in palace-cars, when a buckboard and a pair of plugs and a spring morning like this can satisfy all desire?”","噢，人们为什么要买游艇或者坐在宫殿般豪华的车里旅行呢？有这样一辆马车、一双老马和一个春晨不就能满足所有的欲望了吗？”"
"“Now, I’ll ask you,” protested Teddy, who was futilely striking match after match on the dashboard, “not to call those denizens of the air plugs.","特迪不断在马车挡泥板上划着火柴，他抗议说：“我请求你不要管这两匹马叫老马了。"
"They can kick out a hundred miles between daylight and dark.”","它们能日行千里。”"
"At last he succeeded in snatching a light for his cigar from the flame held in the hollow of his hands.","最后，他终于划着了一根火柴，用手捧着点燃了雪茄。"
"“Room!” said Octavia, intensely.","“空间！”奥克塔维亚兴奋地说道，"
"“That’s what produces the effect.","“这就是我想来的原因。"
"I know now what I’ve wanted—scope—range—room!”","我现在知道我想要什么了——视野——领域——空间！”"
"“Smoking-room,” said Teddy, unsentimentally.","“吸烟间。”特迪不动声色地说道，"
"“I love to smoke in a buckboard.","“我喜欢在马车里抽烟。"
"The wind blows the smoke into you and out again.","风将烟雾吹向你，又吹出来。"
"It saves exertion.”","省了不少力气。”"
"The two fell so naturally into their old-time goodfellowship that it was only by degrees that a sense of the strangeness of the new relations between them came to be felt.","两个人很自然地恢复了旧时的友情，但是渐渐地，他们却感受到了新关系的怪异。"
"“Madama,” said Teddy, wonderingly, “however did you get it into your bead to cut the crowd and come down here?","“夫人，”特迪好奇地问道，“你是怎么想到远离人群来到这里的呀？"
"Is it a fad now among the upper classes to trot off to sheep ranches instead of to Newport?”","现在上流社会流行骑马去牧羊场而不是新港口吗？”"
"“I was broke, Teddy,” said Octavia, sweetly, with her interest centred upon steering safely between a Spanish dagger plant and a clump of chaparral; “I haven’t a thing in the world but this ranch—not even any other home to go to.”","“我破产了，特迪。”奥克塔维亚亲切地说道，她现在的兴趣全都集中在如何从一株凤尾兰和一簇灌木中间安全驶过，“除了这个牧场，我什么都没有了——甚至无家可归。”"
"“Come, now,” said Teddy, anxiously but incredulously, “you don’t mean it?”","“得了吧，”特迪焦急而有些怀疑地说，“你说的不是真的吧？”"
"“When my husband,” said Octavia, with a shy slurring of the word, “died three months ago I thought I had a reasonable amount of the world’s goods.","“我丈夫，”奥克塔维亚含糊说道：“三个月前去世的时候，我以为我可以得到一笔可观的遗产。"
"His lawyer exploded that theory in a sixty-minute fully illustrated lecture.","但是他的律师却在‘引经据典’地跟我充分说明了六十分钟后，推翻了这个理论。"
"I took to the sheep as a last resort.","牧场是我最后的退路了。"
"Do you happen to know of any fashionable caprice among the gilded youth of Manhattan that induces them to abandon polo and club windows to become managers of sheep ranches?”","那你知道又是什么样的时尚想法使得曼哈顿的纨绔子弟放弃了马球和奢靡生活，转作牧羊场的经理吗？”"
"“It’s easily explained in my case,” responded Teddy, promptly.","“我的事情很好解释，”特迪立马回答说，"
"“I had to go to work.","“我必须要工作。"
"I couldn’t have earned my board in New York, so I chummed a while with old Sandford, one of the syndicate that owned the ranch before Colonel Beaupree bought it, and got a place down here.","纽约没有我的一席之地，我跟老桑福德混了一段时间后 ，在这里找到了容身之处。在博普雷上校买下这个牧场之前，桑福德是这个牧场的主人之一。"
"I wasn’t manager at first.","最开始我并不是经理。"
"I jogged around on ponies and studied the business in detail, until I got all the points in my head.","我骑着马到处游走，详细学习这门生意，直到我对这所有的一切都做到心中有数。"
"I saw where it was losing and what the remedies were, and then Sandford put me in charge.","我弄清楚了损失的源头和补救的办法，之后桑福德就让我负责牧场。"
"I get a hundred dollars a month, and I earn it.”","我一个月能拿到一百美元的薪水，这是我应得的。”"
"“Poor Teddy!” said Octavia, with a smile.","“可怜的特迪！”奥克特维亚笑着说。"
"“You needn’t.","“你没必要这样。"
"I like it.","我喜欢这儿。"
"I save half my wages, and I’m as hard as a water plug.","我把一半的工资都存起来，身体跟消防龙头一样结实。"
"It beats polo.”","它比马球强多了。”"
"“Will it furnish bread and tea and jam for another outcast from civilization?”","“这儿还会为另一个被文明抛弃的人提供面包、茶和果酱吗？”"
"“The spring shearing,” said the manager, “just cleaned up a deficit in last year’s business.","“春天剪下的羊毛”经理说，“刚刚将去年生意的亏损补足了。"
"Wastefulness and inattention have been the rule heretofore.","以前浪费和疏忽现象非常普遍。"
"The autumn clip will leave a small profit over all expenses.","而今年秋天剪完羊毛之后的收益，去除所有的开支后，还会有一小部分盈余。"
"Next year there will be jam.”","明年就会有果酱了。”"
"When, about four o’clock in the afternoon, the ponies rounded a gentle, brush-covered hill, and then swooped, like a double cream-coloured cyclone, upon the Rancho de las Sombras, Octavia gave a little cry of delight.","约莫下午四点的时候，马儿走过一座平坦、多灌木的小山，然后像两股奶油色的龙卷风一样飞速奔向树阴牧场，让奥克塔维亚高兴得都叫了起来。"
"A lordly grove of magnificent live-oaks cast an area of grateful, cool shade, whence the ranch had drawn its name, “de las Sombras”—of the shadows.","一片宏伟壮丽的橡树林投下一大片舒适凉爽的树阴，牧场的名字“树阴牧场”就是来于此。"
"The house, of red brick, one story, ran low and long beneath the trees.","红砖单层小平房在树阴下排了长长的一列。"
"Through its middle, dividing its six rooms in half, extended a broad, arched passageway, picturesque with flowering cactus and hanging red earthern jars.","它的中间有一条宽阔的拱形通道，将六间房子一分为二。那些开花的仙人掌和悬挂着的红色陶罐，更是将这里的景色装点得如画般美丽。"
"A “gallery,” low and broad, encircled the building.","一圈低低的宽“长廊”围绕着整个建筑。"
"Vines climbed about it, and the adjacent ground was, for a space, covered with transplanted grass and shrubs.","长廊上爬满了藤蔓，邻近的地上都是为了腾出空间而移植的小草和灌木。"
"A little lake, long and narrow, glimmered in the sun at the rear.","房子后面有一个窄长的小湖，在阳光的照耀下波光粼粼。"
"Further away stood the shacks of the Mexican workers, the corrals, wool sheds and shearing pens.","更远处是墨西哥工人的棚屋、羊栏、剪羊毛棚和剪毛围栏。"
"To the right lay the low hills, splattered with dark patches of chaparral; to the left the unbounded green prairie blending against the blue heavens.","右边则是一些小矮山，上面零零碎碎地长着一些灌木丛；左边是一望无垠的绿色大草原，与蓝色的天空融为一体。"
"“It’s a home, Teddy,” said Octavia, breathlessly; that’s what it is—it’s a home.”","“这就是一个家，特迪，”奥克塔维亚上气不接下气地说道，“这就是——就是一个家。”"
"“Not so bad for a sheep ranch,” admitted Teddy, with excusable pride.","特迪带着些许骄傲，承认说：“对于一个牧羊场来说是不错啦。"
"“I’ve been tinkering on it at odd times.”","不过我时不时地要修修补补。”"
"A Mexican youth sprang from somewhere in the grass, and took charge of the creams.","一个墨西哥青年不知道从草丛中哪个地方冒了出来，牵走了马匹。"
"The mistress and the manager entered the house.","女主人和经理进了屋子里。"
"“Here’s Mrs. MacIntyre,” said Teddy, as a placid, neat, elderly lady came out upon the gallery to meet them.","一个平和、打扮整洁的老太太来到长廊上迎接他们，特迪介绍说：“这是麦金太尔太太。"
"“Mrs. Mac, here’s the boss.","麦克太太，这就是咱老板。"
"Very likely she will be wanting a hunk of ham and a dish of beans after her drive.”","一番舟车劳顿之后，她肯定很想吃一大块火腿配一盘豆子。”"
"Mrs. MacIntyre, the housekeeper, as much a fixture on the place as the lake or the live-oaks, received the imputation of the ranch’s resources of refreshment with mild indignation, and was about to give it utterance when Octavia spoke.","女管家麦金太尔太太就像小湖或者橡树一样，已经成了这里固定的一部分，听到别人对牧场饮食的诋毁，难免有些微愠。奥克塔维亚开口的时候她正准备回嘴。"
"“Oh, Mrs. MacIntyre, don’t apologize for Teddy.","“噢，麦金太尔太太，不要替特迪道歉。"
"Yes, I call him Teddy.","是的，我管他叫特迪。"
"So does every one whom he hasn’t duped into taking him seriously.","每个没有上他的当、不把他当真的人都这么叫他。"
"You see, we used to cut paper dolls and play jackstraws together ages ago.","你明白的，许多年前我们就一起剪纸玩偶，玩挑棒游戏。"
"No one minds what he says.”","没人在意他说什么。”"
"“No,” said Teddy, “no one minds what he says, just so he doesn’t do it again.”","特迪说：“对，就是因为没有人在意他说什么，他才再也不说的。”"
"Octavia cast one of those subtle, sidelong glances toward him from beneath her lowered eyelids—a glance that Teddy used to describe as an upper-cut.","奥克塔维亚耷拉下眼帘，微微斜瞥了他一眼——特迪过去管这样的一瞥叫做“上钩拳”。"
"But there was nothing in his ingenuous, weather-tanned face to warrant a suspicion that he was making an allusion—nothing.","但是看他那张天真无邪、晒得黝黑的脸，你完全没有任何理由去怀疑他在影射些什么——完全没有。"
"Beyond a doubt, thought Octavia, he had forgotten.","奥克塔维亚想，毫无疑问，他早就忘得一干二净了。"
"“Mr. Westlake likes his fun,” said Mrs. Maclntyre, as she conducted Octavia to her rooms.","“韦斯特莱克先生很幽默。”麦金太尔太太边说边带着奥克塔维亚去她的房间。"
"“But,” she added, loyally, “people around here usually pay attention to what he says when he talks in earnest.","“但是，”她忠心地补充道，“当他认真地说些什么的时候，这里的人都会留心的。"
"I don’t know what would have become of this place without him.”","如果没有他，我不知道这个地方会变成什么样子。”"
"Two rooms at the east end of the house had been arranged for the occupancy of the ranch’s mistress.","东头的两间房已经安排好给牧场女主人住了。"
"When she entered them a slight dismay seized her at their bare appearance and the scantiness of their furniture; but she quickly reflected that the climate was a semi-tropical one, and was moved to appreciation of the well-conceived efforts to conform to it.","当她进房看见空荡荡的房间和屈指可数的家具时，有些微微的失望，但是她转念想到这里是亚热带气候，又不禁对他们为了适应气候所作的精心安排感激不已。"
"The sashes had already been removed from the big windows, and white curtains waved in the Gulf breeze that streamed through the wide jalousies.","大大的窗户上早就没有了窗框，海湾的微风透过阔百叶窗吹拂起白色窗帘。"
"The bare floor was amply strewn with cool rugs; the chairs were inviting, deep, dreamy willows; the walls were papered with a light, cheerful olive.","光光的地板用凉席铺满；深深的柳条椅看上去如此舒适诱人；墙上则糊着明快的浅橄榄色墙纸。"
"One whole side of her sitting room was covered with books on smooth, unpainted pine shelves.","她起居室的整个一面墙都是光滑的无涂色松木书架，上面摆满了书。"
"She flew to these at once.","她立马飞快地奔了过去。"
"Before her was a well-selected library.","她面前就是一个经过精心挑选的小藏书库。"
"She caught glimpses of titles of volumes of fiction and travel not yet seasoned from the dampness of the press.","她扫了一眼，发现其中一些小说和游记是刚出的新书。"
"Presently, recollecting that she was now in a wilderness given over to mutton, centipedes and privations, the incongruity of these luxuries struck her, and, with intuitive feminine suspicion, she began turning to the fly-leaves of volume after volume.","现在，当她想到自己正处在一个充满了羊肉、蜈蚣和贫困的荒地，这种与环境不协调的奢侈享受就令她诧异不已。凭着女人直觉性的猜疑，她一本一本地阅读着书的扉页。"
"Upon each one was inscribed in fluent characters the name of Theodore Westlake, Jr.","每一本书上都用流畅的字体写着同一个名字——小西奥多•韦斯特莱克。"
"Octavia, fatigued by her long journey, retired early that night.","奥克塔维亚因为长时间旅途的劳顿，那晚很早就休息了。"
"Lying upon her white, cool bed, she rested deliciously, but sleep coquetted long with her.","她躺在雪白凉爽的床上，感觉甚为惬意，但是却久久不能入睡。"
"She listened to faint noises whose strangeness kept her faculties on the alert—the fractious yelping of the coyotes, the ceaseless, low symphony of the wind, the distant booming of the frogs about the lake, the lamentation of a concertina in the Mexicans’ quarters.","听着那些奇怪而模糊的声音让她所有的感官都处于警惕状态——有土狼烦躁的吠声、绵延不绝婉转低吟的风声、远处湖边的蛙鸣，还有墨西哥人营房里六角风琴的阵阵哀鸣声。"
"There were many conflicting feelings in her heart—thankfulness and rebellion, peace and disquietude, loneliness and a sense of protecting care, happiness and an old, haunting pain.","她内心有很多种矛盾的情感——感恩与叛逆、平和与不安、孤独与受到呵护的安慰，欢愉与常绕心头的旧时的痛苦。"
"She did what any other woman would have done—sought relief in a wholesome tide of unreasonable tears, and her last words, murmured to herself before slumber, capitulating, came softly to woo her, were “He has forgotten.”","她做了其他女人都会做的事——毫无理由地痛哭一场，在泪水中寻求解脱。陷入沉睡前她喃喃自语的最后一句话就是：“他忘了。”她只能无奈地靠这句话来安慰自己了。"
"The manager of the Rancho de las Sombras was no dilettante.","树阴牧场的经理绝不是个外行。"
"He was a “hustler.”","他非常勤劳肯干。"
"He was generally up, mounted, and away of mornings before the rest of the household were awake, making the rounds of the flocks and camps.","在其他人都还在休息的时候，他多半已经起床，骑上马去巡视羊群和营房了。"
"This was the duty of the major-domo, a stately old Mexican with a princely air and manner, but Teddy seemed to have a great deal of confidence in his own eyesight.","这本是那个一派威严的墨西哥老管家的分内之事，但特迪好像对自己亲眼所见的更为放心。"
"Except in the busy seasons, he nearly always returned to the ranch to breakfast at eight o’clock, with Octavia and Mrs. Maclntyre, at the little table set in the central hallway, bringing with him a tonic and breezy cheerfulness full of the health and flavour of the prairies.","除了在忙季的时候，他几乎总是在八点的时候回到牧场，与奥克塔维亚和麦金太尔太太一起坐在走廊中央的那张小桌子旁吃早饭，带来令人心旷神怡的健康活力和草原的芬芳。"
"A few days after Octavia’s arrival he made her get out one of her riding skirts, and curtail it to a shortness demanded by the chaparral brakes.","奥克塔维亚到达几天之后，特迪让她拿出一件骑装裙，按照灌丛的情况改短一些。"
"With some misgivings she donned this and the pair of buckskin leggings he prescribed in addition, and, mounted upon a dancing pony, rode with him to view her possessions.","带着些许疑虑，奥克塔维亚穿上了改制后的裙子，又按照特迪额外的吩咐穿上了鹿皮裹腿，然后就骑上一匹活泼的小马，跟他一起去巡视自己的产业。"
"He showed her everything—the flocks of ewes, muttons and grazing lambs, the dipping vats, the shearing pens, the uncouth merino rams in their little pasture, the water-tanks prepared against the summer drought—giving account of his stewardship with a boyish enthusiasm that never flagged.","他带着她看了所有的一切——有一群群母羊、绵羊、正在吃草的小羔羊、浸洗缸、剪毛栏和牧场上粗野的美利奴羊，还有为了预防夏天干旱准备的水槽——特迪一一汇报着工作，始终充满了从未消逝的孩子般的热情。"
"Where was the old Teddy that she knew so well?","那个她熟知的特迪去哪里了？"
"This side of him was the same, and it was a side that pleased her; but this was all she ever saw of him now.","他的这一面仍旧维持着旧时的模样，也正是她喜欢的那一面。但是她现在看到的这一切就是全部。"
"Where was his sentimentality—those old, varying moods of impetuous love-making, of fanciful, quixotic devotion, of heart-breaking gloom, of alternating, absurd tenderness and haughty dignity?","他的感情用事都去哪里了——那些旧时求爱的鲁莽、幻想般堂吉诃德式的专一、让人心碎的忧伤以及时不时可笑的温柔和傲慢的尊严，这些多变的情绪都去哪里了？"
"His nature had been a sensitive one, his temperament bordering closely on the artistic.","他天性敏感，气质非常具有艺术性。"
"She knew that, besides being a follower of fashion and its fads and sports, he had cultivated tastes of a finer nature.","她知道，除了紧跟时尚潮流，喜欢运动之外，特迪还有着很好的品位。"
"He had written things, he had tampered with colours, he was something of a student in certain branches of art, and once she had been admitted to all his aspirations and thoughts.","他写过文章，摆弄过画，对一些艺术领域颇有见地，她也曾一度了解过他所有的愿望和想法。"
"But now—and she could not avoid the conclusion—Teddy had barricaded against her every side of himself except one—the side that showed the manager of the Rancho de las Sombras and a jolly chum who had forgiven and forgotten.","但是现在——她不得不得出一个结论——特迪不再让她了解他自己人格的各个方面，除了一面——作为树阴牧场的经理、已经宽恕和遗忘的好朋友这一面。"
"Queerly enough the words of Mr. Bannister’s description of her property came into her mind—“all inclosed within a strong barbed-wire fence.”","奇怪的是，这个时候她脑海中浮现出班尼斯特先生用来描述她产业的那句话——“在整个牧场外围还有一圈牢固的带刺铁丝网。”"
"“Teddy’s fenced, too,” said Octavia to herself.","奥克塔维亚自言自语道：“特迪也给自己筑了一道网。”"
"It was not difficult for her to reason out the cause of his fortifications.","要追究特迪为什么对自己如此防备的原因对她来说并不难。"
"It had originated one night at the Hammersmiths’ ball.","一切都始于哈默史密斯家舞会的那一晚。"
"It occurred at a time soon after she had decided to accept Colonel Beaupree and his million, which was no more than her looks and the entrée she held to the inner circles were worth.","事情发生在她决定接受博普雷上校和他百万家产之后不久，但这一切跟她的容貌，以及上层社会的地位相比，或许根本算不了什么。"
"Teddy had proposed with all his impetuosity and fire, and she looked him straight in the eyes, an said, coldly and finally: “Never let me hear any such silly nonsense from you again.”","特迪带着所有的热情、不顾一切地跟她求婚，而她却直直地盯着他的眼睛，冷酷且决绝地说道：“别再让我听到你说这样的蠢话。”"
"“You won’t,” said Teddy, with an expression around his mouth, and—now Teddy was inclosed within a strong barbed-wire fence.","“你不会再听到了。”特迪说，嘴角的表情显得有些奇特。而现在——特迪给自己筑了一道特别坚固的铁丝网。"
"It was on this first ride of inspection that Teddy was seized by the inspiration that suggested the name of Mother Goose’s heroine, and he at once bestowed it upon Octavia.","在首次巡视时，特迪突发灵感，想起了鹅妈妈故事里女主人公的名字，他立即将这个名字“授予”了奥克塔维亚。"
"The idea, supported by both a similarity of names and identity of occupations, seemed to strike him as a peculiarly happy one, and he never tired of using it.","这个想法来源于奥克塔维亚和那个女主人公相似的名字，她们的职业也相同。对于特迪来说，这个名字特别有趣，简直是“屡试不爽”。"
"The Mexicans on the ranch also took up the name, adding another syllable to accommodate their lingual incapacity for the final “p,” gravely referring to her as “La Madama Bo-Peepy.”","墨西哥工人们也用这个外号称呼她。由于发不出最后的“普”这个音，他们就在后面加了个音节，认真地称呼她为“博皮贝夫人”。"
"Eventually it spread, and “Madame Bo-Peep’s ranch” was as often mentioned as the “Rancho de las Sombras.”","后来这个外号竟然流传开来，而“博皮普夫人的牧场”则经常用来代指“树阴牧场”。"
"Came the long, hot season from May to September, when work is scarce on the ranches.","随着五月到九月这一漫长而又炎热的季节的到来，牧场里的活也闲下来了。"
"Octavia passed the days in a kind of lotus-eater’s dream.","奥克塔维亚整天过着浑浑噩噩的日子。"
"Books, hammocks, correspondence with a few intimate friends, a renewed interest in her old water-colour box and easel—these disposed of the sultry hours of daylight.","书、吊床、与闺蜜通信、对水彩盒和画架重新燃起的兴趣——用这些东西可以打发掉白天闷热的时光。"
"The evenings were always sure to bring enjoyment.","晚上总是享受的时光。"
"Best of all were the rapturous horseback rides with Teddy, when the moon gave light over the wind-swept leagues, chaperoned by the wheeling night-hawk and the startled owl.","最开心的就是能够在盘旋的夜莺和受惊的猫头鹰的陪伴下，跟特迪在满是月光、还有微风拂过的草原上开心地骑马。"
"Often the Mexicans would come up from their shacks with their guitars and sing the weirdest of heart-breaking songs.","这时候，墨西哥工人往往也会拿着吉他，走出棚屋，唱起最怪异的伤心情歌。"
"There were long, cosy chats on the breezy gallery, and an interminable warfare of wits between Teddy and Mrs. MacIntyre, whose abundant Scotch shrewdness often more than overmatched the lighter humour in which she was lacking.","阵阵微风袭来的长廊上，经常会有人在那里舒适地聊上半天。特迪和麦金太尔太太也常在那里无休无尽地斗智，而麦金太尔太太满腹的苏格兰式精明弥补了她缺乏的轻幽默，反而吃不了什么亏。"
"And the nights came, one after another, and were filed away by weeks and months—nights soft and languorous and fragrant, that should have driven Strephon to Chloe over wires however barbed, that might have drawn Cupid himself to hunt, lasso in hand, among those amorous pastures—but Teddy kept his fences up.","一个又一个轻柔、令人倦怠而充满芬芳的夜晚到来了，又随着一个星期或者一个月的逝去而消逝了。这样的夜晚本应使得斯特雷方翻过任何铁丝网，去到克洛伊身边，或者使得丘比特自个儿拿起套索，在这个多情的草原上搜寻猎物。但是特迪仍然还筑着那道铁丝网。"
"One July night Madame Bo-Peep and her ranch manager were sitting on the east gallery.","七月的一个晚上，博皮普夫人和他的牧场经理一起坐在长廊的东头。"
"Teddy had been exhausting the science of prognostication as to the probabilities of a price of twenty-four cents for the autumn clip, and had then subsided into an anesthetic cloud of Havana smoke.","特迪用上了所有的理论来推算秋天剪下的羊毛能够获得二十四分盈利的概率，最后再也没话可说，只能静静坐在哈瓦那雪茄令人麻木的烟雾中。"
"Only as incompetent a judge as a woman would have failed to note long ago that at least a third of his salary must have gone up in the fumes of those imported Regalias.","只有女人这样失格的判断者才会在这么久之后都没有发现，他工资中至少有三分之一的钱都随着那些进口雪茄的烟雾消散了。"
"“Teddy,” said Octavia, suddenly, and rather sharply, “what are you working down here on a ranch for?”","“特迪，”奥克塔维亚突然说，显得相当突兀，“你来这个牧场工作到底是为了什么？”"
"“One hundred per,” said Teddy, glibly, “and found.”","特地不假思索地回答道：“一百美元一月的工资和免费膳宿。”"
"“I’ve a good mind to discharge you.”","“我真想解雇你。”"
"“Can’t do it,” said Teddy, with a grin.","“你做不到。”特迪咧嘴笑道。"
"“Why not?” demanded Octavia, with argumentative heat.","“为什么？”奥克塔维亚问道，似乎想要跟他争论一番。"
"“Under contract.","“合同规定。"
"Terms of sale respect all unexpired contracts.","买卖要遵循所有还未到期的合同。"
"Mine runs until 12 P. M., December thirty-first.","我的合同要到十二月三十一日晚上十二点才终止。"
"You might get up at midnight on that date and fire me.","你可以在那天半夜爬起来解雇我。"
"If you try it sooner I’ll be in a position to bring legal proceedings.”","如果你想提前解雇我的话，我可以提起法律诉讼。”"
"Octavia seemed to be considering the prospects of litigation.","奥克塔维亚似乎在考虑采取法律途径的前景。"
"“But,” continued Teddy cheerfully, “I’ve been thinking of resigning anyway.”","“但是，”特迪继续高兴地说道，“不管怎样，我已经在考虑辞职了。”"
"Octavia’s rocking-chair ceased its motion.","奥克塔维亚不再摇动椅子。"
"There were centipedes in this country, she felt sure; and Indians, and vast, lonely, desolate, empty wastes; all within strong barbed-wire fence.","在这个地方，她确信有蜈蚣、印第安人，有浩瀚、孤独、荒凉、空旷的旷野，这所有的一切都围在牢固的铁丝网内。"
"There was a Van Dresser pride, but there was also a Van Dresser heart.","她有范德雷瑟家的骄傲，但也有范德雷瑟家的内心。"
"She must know for certain whether or not he had forgotten.","她必须弄清楚他是否忘记了。"
"“Ah, well, Teddy,” she said, with a fine assumption of polite interest, “it’s lonely down here; you’re longing to get back to the old life—to polo and lobsters and theatres and balls.”","“哦，好吧，特迪，”她说，装作很有礼貌地询问道，“这里确实很孤寂，你想要回到过去的生活吧——想要回去打马球，吃龙虾，看电影，去舞会吧。”"
"“Never cared much for balls,” said Teddy virtuously.","“我对舞会从来没有什么兴趣。”特迪正经地说。"
"“You’re getting old, Teddy.","“你老了，特迪。"
"Your memory is failing.","你都没什么记性了。"
"Nobody ever knew you to miss a dance, unless it occurred on the same night with another one which you attended.","谁都知道你是有舞会必到，除非它跟另一场你参加的舞会冲突了。"
"And you showed such shocking bad taste, too, in dancing too often with the same partner.","你和同一个舞伴跳得太频繁了，这可是种坏品位。"
"Let me see, what was that Forbes girl’s name—the one with wall eyes—Mabel, wasn’t it?”","让我想想，那个福布斯家的女孩叫什么来着——就是白星眼的那个——梅布尔，是吗？”"
"“No; Adéle.","“不，她叫阿黛尔。"
"Mabel was the one with the bony elbows.","梅布尔是胳膊肘没什么肉的那个。"
"That wasn’t wall in Adéle’s eyes.","阿黛尔也不是白星眼。"
"It was soul.","那里有她的灵魂。"
"We used to talk sonnets together, and Verlaine.","我们过去经常在一起聊十四行诗，还有魏尔兰。"
"Just then I was trying to run a pipe from the Pierian spring.”","那个时候，我还试图自己写诗呢。”"
"“You were on the floor with her,” said Octavia, undeflected, “five times at the Hammersmiths’.”","奥克塔维亚并不让他岔开话题，说：“你还跟她一起跳舞，在哈默史密斯家的舞会上就跳了五支。”"
"“Hammersmiths’ what?” questioned Teddy, vacuously.","“哈默史密斯家的什么？”特迪装傻充愣地问道。"
"“Ball—ball,” said Octavia, viciously.","“舞会——舞会！”奥克塔维亚狠狠地回答道，"
"“What were we talking of?”","“我们刚刚一直在谈论什么？”"
"“Eyes, I thought,” said Teddy, after some reflection; “and elbows.”","“我想是眼睛，”特迪想了一下后说道，“还有胳膊肘。”"
"“Those Hammersmiths,” went on Octavia, in her sweetest society prattle, after subduing an intense desire to yank a handful of sunburnt, sandy hair from the head lying back contentedly against the canvas of the steamer chair, “had too much money.","奥克塔维亚特别想猛地从那颗脑袋上扯下一把久经日晒的黄头发，此刻它正舒适地躺在帆布躺椅上。她好不容易才压制下这种强烈的冲动，用最甜美的社交口吻继续说道：“哈默史密斯家的那些人太有钱了。"
"Mines, wasn’t it?","开矿的，不是吗？"
"It was something that paid something to the ton.","那可能赚很多钱啊。"
"You couldn’t get a glass of plain water in their house.","你在他们家甚至都喝不到白水。"
"Everything at that ball was dreadfully overdone.”","那个舞会的所有一切都太夸张了。”"
"“It was,” said Teddy.","“确实是的。”特迪说，"
"“Such a crowd there was!”","“那儿特别挤！”"
"Octavia continued, conscious that she was talking the rapid drivel of a school-girl describing her first dance.","奥克塔维亚意识到自己就像是一个在描述生平第一次舞会的女学生一样,完全是在说傻话。"
"“The balconies were as warm as the rooms.","“阳台上就跟房间里一样温暖。"
"I—lost—something at that ball.”","我——我在那次舞会上丢了——丢了一个东西。”"
"The last sentence was uttered in a tone calculated to remove the barbs from miles of wire.","最后一句话的语气就是专门用来清除特迪那道铁丝网的。"
"“So did I,” confessed Teddy, in a lower voice.","“我也一样。”特迪低声坦白道。"
"“A glove,” said Octavia, falling back as the enemy approached her ditches.","当敌人靠近她的壕沟之时，奥克塔维亚却后退了。她说：“我丢了一只手套。”"
"“Caste,” said Teddy, halting his firing line without loss.","“我丢了社会地位。”特迪毫无损失地停止了攻击。"
"“I hobnobbed, half the evening with one of Hammersmith’s miners, a fellow who kept his hands in his pockets, and talked like an archangel about reduction plants and drifts and levels and sluice-boxes.”","“我跟一个哈默史密斯家的矿工聊了半宿，他总是把手放在口袋里，说起话来就像个天使，老是聊些关于矿石粉碎厂、小平巷、主平巷和洗矿槽的话题。”"
"“A pearl-gray glove, nearly new,” sighed Octavia, mournfully.","奥克塔维亚悲伤地叹息道：“一只珍珠灰的手套，几乎是全新的。”"
"“A bang-up chap, that McArdle,” maintained Teddy approvingly.","特迪赞许地接着说道：“那个麦卡德尔，真是个不错的小伙子。"
"“A man who hated olives and elevators; a man who handled mountains as croquettes, and built tunnels in the air; a man who never uttered a word of silly nonsense in his life.","他讨厌橄榄和电梯，把大山看作肉丸子，还凌空架隧道。他生平没有说过一句蠢话。"
"Did you sign those lease-renewal applications yet, madama?","夫人，你有签那些续约申请吗？"
"They’ve got to be on file in the land office by the thirty-first.”","三十一号之前必须交给国土局存档。”"
"Teddy turned his head lazily.","特迪懒懒地扭过头来。"
"Octavia’s chair was vacant.","奥克塔维亚的椅子上已经空无一人了。"
"A certain centipede, crawling along the lines marked out by fate, expounded the situation.","一条沿着命数的轨迹爬行的蜈蚣很好地理清了这一切。"
"It was early one morning while Octavia and Mrs. Maclntyre were trimming the honeysuckle on the west gallery.","那是一个清晨，奥克塔维亚和麦金太尔太太正在走廊西头修剪忍冬植物。"
"Teddy had risen and departed hastily before daylight in response to word that a flock of ewes had been scattered from their bedding ground during the night by a thunder-storm.","特迪早在天亮前就匆忙起身离开了，据说基地有群母羊被前一晚的那场雷雨吓得走散了。"
"The centipede, driven by destiny, showed himself on the floor of the gallery, and then, the screeches of the two women giving him his cue, he scuttled with all his yellow legs through the open door into the furthermost west room, which was Teddy’s.","受命运驱使的蜈蚣出现在了长廊的地板上。两个女人的尖叫声给了它暗示，它便撒开所有黄腿，没命地从敞开的房门那里溜进了最西头特迪的房间。"
"Arming themselves with domestic utensils selected with regard to their length, Octavia and Mrs. Maclntyre, with much clutching of skirts and skirmishing for the position of rear guard in the attacking force, followed.","奥克塔维亚和麦金太尔太太挑了两件长家具当武器，提起裙摆，就谁当后卫、谁当前锋这一问题争论了一番后，跟了上去。"
"Once outside, the centipede seemed to have disappeared, and his prospective murderers began a thorough but cautious search for their victim.","蜈蚣一进房间仿佛就消失了，而那两个要害它性命的女人则开始了彻底而小心的搜索。"
"Even in the midst of such a dangerous and absorbing adventure Octavia was conscious of an awed curiosity on finding herself in Teddy’s sanctum.","即使是在最危险和最专注的冒险中，奥克塔维亚都还能感到自己身处特迪的房间时那种敬畏的好奇心。"
"In that room he sat alone, silently communing with those secret thoughts that he now shared with no one, dreamed there whatever dreams he now called on no one to interpret.","他独自坐在那个房间，默默地与自己的小秘密谈着心。他现在不再与别人分享这些念头，也希望不再有人知道他现在的想法。"
"It was the room of a Spartan or a soldier.","这就是个斯巴达人或者军人的房间。"
"In one corner stood a wide, canvas-covered cot; in another, a small bookcase; in another, a grim stand of Winchesters and shotguns.","一个角落里摆着一张宽大的帆布床，一个角落里放着一个小书架，而另一个角落里则放着几把可怕的温切斯特枪和猎枪。"
"An immense table, strewn with letters, papers and documents and surmounted by a set of pigeon-holes, occupied one side.","房间里还有一张巨大的桌子，上面摆满了信、纸张和文件以及一个支起的分类箱。"
"The centipede showed genius in concealing himself in such bare quarters.","蜈蚣能在这么空旷的住所找到藏匿之处，确实很有才。"
"Mrs. Maclntyre was poking a broom-handle behind the bookcase.","麦金太尔太太用扫帚柄捅了捅书架的后面。"
"Octavia approached Teddy’s cot.","奥克塔维亚走近特迪的床。"
"The room was just as the manager had left it in his hurry.","房间的样子跟他匆忙离开时一模一样。"
"The Mexican maid had not yet given it her attention.","墨西哥女佣还没有过来收拾。"
"There was his big pillow with the imprint of his head still in the centre.","他的枕头大大的，中央部分仍然留有他睡过的痕迹。"
"She thought the horrid beast might have climbed the cot and hidden itself to bite Teddy.","她想，这个可恶的小畜生可能已经爬上床藏了起来，以伺机咬特迪一口。"
"Centipedes were thus cruel and vindictive toward managers.","蜈蚣对经理的态度总是那样残忍恶毒。"
"She cautiously overturned the pillow, and then parted her lips to give the signal for reinforcements at sight of a long, slender, dark object lying there.","她小心地翻过枕头，看见一条长长的柔软的黑色物体躺在那里，张开嘴正准备呼叫援军。"
"But, repressing it in time, she caught up a glove, a pearl-gray glove, flattened—it might be conceived—by many, many months of nightly pressure beneath the pillow of the man who had forgotten the Hammersmiths’ ball.","但是，她及时压下了求救信号。她抓起一只手套，一只珍珠灰的手套，它被压在这个忘记哈默史密斯家舞会的男人的枕头底下应该已经好几个月了，看上去有些扁扁的。"
"Teddy must have left so hurriedly that morning that he had, for once, forgotten to transfer it to its resting-place by day.","特迪那天早上肯定是走得太匆忙了，以至于这一次忘记把它放回白天的位置。"
"Even managers, who are notoriously wily and cunning, are sometimes caught up with.","即使是众所周知狡猾又诡计多端的经理们，有时候也会被抓住尾巴。"
"Octavia slid the gray glove into the bosom of her summery morning gown.","奥克塔维亚把手套揣进她穿着夏季晨袍的怀里。"
"It was hers.","它是她的了。"
"Men who put themselves within a strong barbed-wire fence, and remember Hammersmith balls only by the talk of miners about sluice-boxes, should not be allowed to possess such articles.","躲在坚固的铁丝网之中，只记得在哈默史密斯家舞会上跟矿工聊过洗矿槽的男人，不配拥有这样的东西。"
"After all, what a paradise this prairie country was!","说到底，这个草原国度多么像天堂啊！"
"How it blossomed like the rose when you found things that were thought to be lost!","当你在这里找到以为丢失的东西时，这里就更美了，就像是盛开的玫瑰！"
"How delicious was that morning breeze coming in the windows, fresh and sweet with the breath of the yellow ratama blooms!","那夹杂着黄金雀花芬芳，从窗口吹来的清新而香甜的晨风是多么美妙啊！"
"Might one not stand, for a minute, with shining, far-gazing eyes, and dream that mistakes might be corrected?","你能不多站一会儿，用那双闪亮的眼睛凝视远方，幻想误会都消除吗？"
"Why was Mrs. Maclntyre poking about so absurdly with a broom?","为什么麦金太尔太太要可笑地用个扫帚去捅呢？"
"“I’ve found it,” said Mrs. MacIntyre, banging the door.","“我找到了，”麦金太尔太太砰地关上了门，"
"“Here it is.”","“就在这儿。”"
"“Did you lose something? asked Octavia, with sweetly polite non-interest.","“你有丢什么东西吗？”奥克塔维亚礼貌地用甜甜的声音问道，但实际却没有什么兴趣。"
"“The little devil!” said Mrs. Maclntyre, driven to violence.","“那个小恶魔！”麦金太尔太太愤愤地说道，"
"“Ye’ve no forgotten him alretty?”","“你难道已经忘记它的存在了吗？”"
"Between them they slew the centipede.","她们俩一起将蜈蚣弄死了。"
"Thus was he rewarded for his agency toward the recovery of things lost at the Hammersmiths’ ball.","正是由于它搭的桥，才让奥克塔维亚在哈默史密斯家舞会上丢的东西失而复得，但它得到的下场却是这样。"
"It seems that Teddy, in due course, remembered the glove, and when he returned to the house at sunset made a secret but exhaustive search for it.","特迪似乎也在随后不久想起了这只手套。傍晚回房间之后，他悄悄地彻底搜寻了一番。"
"Not until evening, upon the moonlit eastern gallery, did he find it.","直到晚上的月光洒向东头长廊，他才找到了手套。"
"It was upon the hand that he had thought lost to him forever, and so he was moved to repeat certain nonsense that he had been commanded never, never to utter again.","它出现在了他原以为永远失去的那只手上。特迪感动得又再次说出了那些曾被禁止的胡话。"
"Teddy’s fences were down.","特迪的铁丝网彻底垮塌了。"
"This time there was no ambition to stand in the way, and the wooing was as natural and successful as should be between ardent shepherd and gentle shepherdess.","这次再也没有横亘在他们之间的野心，求爱也相当自然，相当成功，就像热情的牧羊人和温柔的牧羊女之间该有的情形一样。"
"The prairies changed to a garden.","整个草原变成了一个花园。"
"The Rancho de las Sombras became the Ranch of Light.","树阴牧场也充满了光明。"
"A few days later Octavia received a letter from Mr. Bannister, in reply to one she had written to him asking some questions about her business.","几天之后，奥克塔维亚从班尼斯特先生那儿收到了一封回信，之前她就一些生意上的问题写信问过他。"
"A portion of the letter ran as follows:","信上的一部分这样写道："
"“I am at a loss to account for your references to the sheep ranch.","“关于牧场的问题，我真的不知道该怎么跟你说。"
"Two months after your departure to take up your residence upon it, it was discovered that Colonel Beaupree’s title was worthless.","你出发去那儿定居的两个月后，我们才发现博普雷上校的产权根本无效。"
"A deed came to light showing that he disposed of the property before his death.","一份契据表明他在死之前就已经卖掉了这份财产。"
"The matter was reported to your manager, Mr. Westlake, who at once repurchased the property.","我们跟你的经理，也就是韦斯特莱克先生已经说过了，他立马就把这份产业赎了回去。"
"It is entirely beyond my powers of conjecture to imagine how you have remained in ignorance of this fact.","我完全没有预料到，你到现在都还蒙在鼓里。"
"I beg that you that will at once confer with that gentleman, who will, at least, corroborate my statement.”","我希望你立马跟那位先生协商一下，至少他能证实我所言不假。"
"Octavia sought Teddy, with battle in her eye.","奥克塔维亚找到特迪，眼泛怒意。"
"“What are you working on this ranch for?” she asked once more.","她再次问道：“你在这个牧场工作到底是为了什么？”"
"“One hundred—” he began to repeat, but saw in her face that she knew.","“一百——”他本来又要再重复一遍，但却看到了奥克塔维亚一脸了然的样子。"
"She held Mr. Bannister’s letter in her hand.","她手里握着班尼斯特先生的信。"
"He knew that the game was up.","他知道他瞒不住了。"
"“It’s my ranch,” said Teddy, like a schoolboy detected in evil.","“这是我的牧场。”特迪说道，就好像是学生做坏事被当场抓住的样子，"
"“It’s a mighty poor manager that isn’t able to absorb the boss’s business if you give him time.”","“如果你给一个经理足够多的时间，他还不能将老板的生意收为己有的话，这个经理就太无能了。”"
"“Why were you working down here?” pursued Octavia still struggling after the key to the riddle of Teddy.","奥克塔维亚仍然想要打破沙锅问到底：“你为什么要在这儿工作？”"
"“To tell the truth, ’Tave,” said Teddy, with quiet candour, “it wasn’t for the salary.","“实话说，塔维亚，”特迪相当正经地回答道，“我并不是为了工资。"
"That about kept me in cigars and sunburn lotions.","这点儿工资只够我抽雪茄，买防晒霜。"
"I was sent south by my doctor.","我来南部是因为我的医生。"
"’Twas that right lung that was going to the bad on account of over-exercise and strain at polo and gymnastics.","我因为打马球和体操而运动过度，导致我的右肺情况变得很糟。"
"I needed climate and ozone and rest and things of that sort.”","我需要好的气候、清新的空气、足够的休息以及类似的条件。”"
"In an instant Octavia was close against the vicinity of the affected organ.","奥克塔维亚立马靠向了那个情况不好的部位。"
"Mr. Bannister’s letter fluttered to the floor.","班尼斯特先生的信飘到了地上。"
"“It’s—it’s well now, isn’t it, Teddy?”","“现在——现在好了吗，特迪？”"
"“Sound as a mesquite chunk.","“就跟牧豆树干一样健康。"
"I deceived you in one thing.","我有件事骗了你。"
"I paid fifty thousand for your ranch as soon as I found you had no title.","当我知道你并没有牧场的所有权之后，就立即花了五万买了下来。"
"I had just about that much income accumulated at my banker’s while I’ve been herding sheep down here, so it was almost like picking the thing up on a bargain-counter for a penny.","在这儿牧羊期间，我银行户头里累积起来的工资差不多有这个数，所以我几乎就是捡了个便宜。"
"There’s another little surplus of unearned increment piling up there, ‘Tave.","除了这些，我还另外有一小笔‘不劳而获’的盈余，塔维亚。"
"I’ve been thinking of a wedding trip in a yacht with white ribbons tied to the mast, through the Mediterranean, and then up among the Hebrides and down Norway to the Zuyder Zee.”","我一直在想，新婚旅行的时候，我要乘着游艇穿越地中海，登上赫布里底群岛，途径挪威到达须德海，游艇的桅杆上还要系着白色绸带。”"
"“And I was thinking,” said Octavia, softly, “of a wedding gallop with my manager among the flocks of sheep and back to a wedding breakfast with Mrs. MacIntyre on the gallery, with, maybe, a sprig of orange blossom fastened to the red jar above the table.”","“我一直在想，”奥克塔维亚轻轻说道，“我结婚的时候要跟我的经理一起在羊群中骑马，然后回去长廊跟麦金太尔太太一起共进婚礼早餐，或许，还能有一簇橘子花系在桌子上方悬挂着的红陶罐上。”"
"Teddy laughed, and began to chant:","特迪笑了，唱起了歌儿："
"“Little Bo-Peep has lost her sheep,","“小小博普丢了羊，"
"And doesn’t know where to find ’em.","却不知道上哪儿找。"
"Let ’em alone, and they’ll come home,","随它们去吧，它们自己会回家的，"
"And—”","然后——”"
"Octavia drew his head down, and whispered in his ear, But that is one of the tales they brought behind them.","奥克塔维亚勾住他的脖子，在他耳边低语了些什么，不过这就是后话了。"

