"书名坚强的王子（宝剑复仇记）短简介王子命运坎坷，继丧父之后又被亲生母亲出卖，失去宝剑，还落得双目失明，被强盗逐出城堡。他如何对待这般不幸呢？坚强且永不屈服的他如何在巨人的帮助下复仇成功呢？《坚强的王子》讲述了一个王子与逆境抗争，最终成功复仇的故事，展现了王子坚强的品质。长简介《坚强的王子》讲述了一个王子与逆境抗争，成功复仇的故事，展现了他的坚强品质。王子的父亲因酗酒而意外去世。他带着母亲闯荡，偶然得到了一把神奇的宝剑，力量变得强大。他成功消灭了森林里的强盗团伙，然而母亲却与强盗头目日久生情。母亲指使强盗偷走王子的宝剑。虽然王子被强盗挖去双眼，逐出城堡，但王子并不屈服，而是寻找巨人帮助，双眼得以复明。他带着巨人的动物仆人取回宝剑，复仇成功。最后他和巨人的女儿结婚，生活平静美好。无论身处顺境还是逆境，做一个坚强的人，总会得到上天的眷顾。关键字坚强的王子；安德鲁·朗格；外研社编译组；匈牙利民间童话；城堡；宝剑；复仇；强盗；巨人；森林作者安德鲁·朗格作者简介安德鲁·朗格(1844—1912)，英国著名文学家、历史学家、诗人、民俗学家。以研究神话、民间传说和收集编写了一系列彩色童话集而闻名于世。该系列共包括《绿色童话》、《黄色童话》等十一部童话集，童话来源于日本、德国、匈牙利、俄罗斯、葡萄牙和意大利等多个国家和地区。这部瑰丽的彩色童话集比任何一位作家写的，或搜集的童话都要完整，这些离奇曲折、妙趣横生、寓意深远的童话故事读来令人爱不释手，获"
"益匪浅。书评无论身处顺境还是逆境，做一个坚强的人，最终会得到上天的眷顾。面对不幸，自强不息。"
"The Strong Prince","坚强的王子"
"by Andrew Lang","作者：安德鲁·朗格"
"Once upon a time there lived a king who was so fond of wine that he could not go to sleep unless he knew he had a great glassful tied to his bed-post.","从前，有一个国王，他十分喜欢喝酒。晚上睡觉前，要是床柱上没有挂着一大瓶酒，他就不能入眠。"
"All day long he drank till he was too stupid to attend to his business, and everything in the kingdom went to rack and ruin.","他整天都在喝酒，弄得神思恍惚无法处理国事，导致国家日渐衰败。"
"But one day an accident happened to him, and he was struck on the head by a falling bough, so that he fell from his horse and lay dead upon the ground.","结果，有一天他遭遇了意外。一根大树枝掉下来，砸在他的头上。于是，他从马上摔下来，倒在地上死了。"
"His wife and son mourned his loss bitterly, for, in spite of his faults, he had always been kind to them.","他的妻子和儿子对他的死悲痛万分，因为他虽然有错，但是他一直很疼爱妻儿。"
"So they abandoned the crown and forsook their country, not knowing or caring where they went.","于是，他们放弃了王位，离开了国家，不知道也不在意去向何方。"
"At length they wandered into a forest, and being very tired, sat down under a tree to eat some bread that they had brought with them.","最后，他们走进了一片森林。由于十分疲惫，他们就坐在树下，拿起随身带着的几片面包吃了起来。"
"When they had finished the queen said: ‘My son, I am thirsty; fetch me some water.’","他们吃完后，王后说：“儿子，我渴了，去给我找点儿水吧。”"
"The prince got up at once and went to a brook which he heard gurgling near at hand.","王子立即站起来，走向附近的小溪。他听见了小溪潺潺的流水声。"
"He stooped and filled his hat with the water, which he brought to his mother; then he turned and followed the stream up to its source in a rock, where it bubbled out clear and fresh and cold.","他在小溪边弯下腰，用帽子盛了一些水带给母亲喝。然后他折回，沿着溪流往上游走找到了其源头。溪水从岩石缝隙冒出来，是十分清澈、冰爽的淡水。"
"He knelt down to take a draught from the deep pool below the rock, when he saw the reflection of a sword hanging from the branch of a tree over his head.","他跪下来，想从岩石下面的深水池里弄口水喝。这时，他看到水中的倒影，有一把剑挂在他头顶的树枝上。"
"The young man drew back with a start; but in a moment he climbed the tree, cutting the rope which held the sword, and carried the weapon to his mother.","小伙子吓得往后一退，但马上就爬上树，割断了挂剑的绳子，带着这兵器回去找母亲。"
"The queen was greatly surprised at the sight of anything so splendid in such a lonely place, and took it in her hands to examine it closely.","王后在这个荒无人烟的地方，看见这个东西如此漂亮，感到十分惊喜，就把剑拿到手中仔细看了起来。"
"It was of curious workmanship, wrought with gold, and on its handle was written: ‘The man who can buckle on this sword will become stronger than other men.’","这把剑做工奇特，是用黄金锻造而成，剑柄上写着：“谁能把此剑系在身上，谁就会比其他人更强大”。"
"The queen’s heart swelled with joy as she read these words, and she bade her son lose no time in testing their truth.","读到这里，王后满心欢喜，叫儿子马上试试看是否真会如此。"
"So he fastened it round his waist, and instantly a glow of strength seemed to run through his veins.","于是，他把剑系在腰间，一瞬间，视乎有一股强大的力量穿过了他全身的血脉。"
"He took hold of a thick oak tree and rooted it up as easily as if it had been a weed.","他把一棵大橡树连根拔起，就像拔草一样容易。"
"This discovery put new life into the queen and her son, and they continued their walk through the forest.","这个发现给王后和她的儿子带来了新的希望。他们继续在森林里走着。"
"But night was drawing on, and the darkness grew so thick that it seemed as if it could be cut with a knife.","但是，夜幕降临，周围越来越黑，似乎要用一把刀才可以划破这黑暗。"
"They did not want to sleep in the wood, for they were afraid of wolves and other wild beasts, so they groped their way along, hand in hand, till the prince tripped over something which lay across the path.","他们害怕狼和其他野兽，不敢在树林里睡觉，于是手牵着手，一路摸索着前进，直到王子被横在路上的什么东西绊了一跤。"
"He could not see what it was, but stooped down and tried to lift it.","他看不清是什么东西，便弯下腰想把它拿起来。"
"The thing was very heavy, and he thought his back would break under the strain.","这东西非常沉，沉得他觉得自己的腰都要断了。"
"At last with a great heave he moved it out of the road, and as it fell he knew it was a huge rock.","最后他用力一拽，把这东西甩出了路面。等到这东西再跌下来的时候，他才知道这是一块巨石。"
"Behind the rock was a cave which it was quite clear was the home of some robbers, though not one of the band was there.","巨石后面是一个洞穴。虽然一个人也没有，但是很明显是强盗的巢穴。"
"Hastily putting out the fire which burned brightly at the back, and bidding his mother come in and keep very still, the prince began to pace up and down, listening for the return of the robbers.","后面的火堆燃烧着，很明亮。王子匆匆忙忙将火扑灭，叫母亲走进来，并保持安静。王子在里面四下走着，仔细听着强盗回来的动静。"
"But he was very sleepy, and in spite of all his efforts he felt he could not keep awake much longer, when he heard the sound of the robbers returning, shouting and singing as they marched along.","但是他很困，尽管努力想保持清醒，他还是觉得快要支撑不住了。这时，他听到强盗回来的声音，他们行进时吵吵嚷嚷，一路高歌。"
"Soon the singing ceased, and straining his ears he heard them discussing anxiously what had become of their cave, and why they could not see the fire as usual.","过了一会儿，歌声停止了。他竖起耳朵，听见他们正不安地讨论着洞穴里发生了什么，为什么他们没有像平常一样看见火堆。"
"‘This must be the place,’ said a voice, which the prince took to be that of the captain.","“就是这个地方，没有错。”有人说道。王子觉得这应该是他们的头目。"
"‘Yes, I feel the ditch before the entrance.","“不会错，我摸到洞穴入口外的沟了。"
"Someone forgot to pile up the fire before we left and it has burnt itself out!","我们离开时，有人忘记加柴火，现在烧完了！"
"But it is all right.","不过没关系。"
"Let every man jump across, and as he does so cry out “Hop! I am here.”","现在每个人跳过去，边跳边喊一声：‘跳！我到了。’"
"I will go last.","我殿后。"
"Now begin.’","现在开始跳。”"
"The man who stood nearest jumped across, but he had no time to give the call which the captain had ordered, for with one swift, silent stroke of the prince’s sword, his head rolled into a corner.","那个站得最近的人跳了，但是他来不及发出头目要求的讯号，因为王子的剑瞬间无声地挥向了他，他的脑袋随之落地，滚到了角落。"
"Then the young man cried instead, ‘Hop! I am here.’","然后小伙子就喊了一声：“跳！我到了。”"
"The second man, hearing the signal, leapt the ditch in confidence, and was met by the same fate, and in a few minutes eleven of the robbers lay dead, and there remained only the captain.","第二个人听见了讯号，放心地跳过沟，遭遇了同样的结局。几分钟之后，十一个强盗都死了，只剩下他们的头目。"
"Now the captain had wound round his neck the shawl of his lost wife, and the stroke of the prince’s sword fell harmless.","由于头目的脖子上戴着他已故妻子的围巾，就没有被王子的击剑伤到。"
"Being very cunning, however, he made no resistance, and rolled over as if he were as dead as the other men.","不过，他十分狡猾，没有反抗，而是像其他死掉的人一样滚到了一边。"
"Still, the prince was no fool, and wondered if indeed he was as dead as he seemed to be; but the captain lay so stiff and stark, that at last he was taken in.","但是，王子并不笨，他怀疑这人是否真的像看上去一样死了。可是，头目直挺挺地躺在那里，最终骗过了王子。"
"The prince next dragged the headless bodies into a chamber in the cave, and locked the door.","之后，王子将这些无头尸体拖到了洞穴内的一间房间，锁上门。"
"Then he and his mother ransacked the place for some food, and when they had eaten it they lay down and slept in peace.","然后，他和母亲搜遍这里，找到了一些食物。他们吃完后，就躺下来安心睡觉。"
"With the dawn they were both awake again, and found that, instead of the cave which they had come to the night before, they now were in a splendid castle, full of beautiful rooms.","黎明时分，他们都醒来了，发现这里并不是昨晚的那个洞穴。他们身在一个宏伟的城堡，有很多漂亮的房间。"
"The prince went round all these and carefully locked them up, bidding his mother take care of the keys while he was hunting.","王子把所有房间都走了一圈，认真地把这些房间都锁好了。他要出去打猎，便告诉母亲要好好保管这些钥匙。"
"Unfortunately, the queen, like all women, could not bear to think that there was anything which she did not know.","不幸的是，王后就像所有女人一样，一想到有自己不知道的事情，就忍受不了。"
"So the moment that her son had turned his back, she opened the doors of all the rooms, and peeped in, till she came to the one where the robbers lay.","因此，她儿子刚一转身，她就打开了所有房间的门偷看，直到来到了强盗所在的房间。"
"But if the sight of the blood on the ground turned her faint, the sight of the robber captain walking up and down was a greater shock still.","如果说，看见地上的血会让她晕倒的话，那么目睹强盗头目走来走去，就更加让她震惊了。"
"She quickly turned the key in the lock, and ran back to the chamber she had slept in.","她立即把门锁上，跑回之前睡觉的房间。"
"Soon after her son came in, bringing with him a large bear, which he had killed for supper.","不久，她儿子进来了。他打死了一只大熊，带回来当晚餐。"
"As there was enough food to last them for many days, the prince did not hunt the next morning, but, instead, began to explore the castle.","因为食物足够他们吃很多天了，第二天早上王子就没有打猎，而是开始探索城堡。"
"He found that a secret way led from it into the forest; and following the path, he reached another castle larger and more splendid than the one belonging to the robbers.","他发现了一条从城堡通往森林的秘密通道。沿着这条通道，他来到了另一个城堡，比强盗那个更大、更宏伟。"
"He knocked at the door with his fist, and said that he wanted to enter; but the giant, to whom the castle belonged, only answered: ‘I know who you are.","他用拳头敲了一下门，说他想进去。但是，城堡里的主人——一个巨人只是回答：“我知道你是谁。"
"I have nothing to do with robbers.’","我和强盗毫无关系。”"
"‘I am no robber,’ answered the prince.","“我不是强盗。”王子回答。"
"‘I am the son of a king, and I have killed all the band.","“我是一个国王的儿子，我把强盗团伙都给消灭了。"
"If you do not open to me at once I will break in the door, and your head shall go to join the others.’","如果你不马上给我开门，我就闯进门，让你脑袋搬家，跟其他人一样。”"
"He waited a little, but the door remained shut as tightly as before.","他等了一会儿，但是，门就像之前一样依然关得紧紧的。"
"Then he just put his shoulder to it, and immediately the wood began to crack.","于是，他用肩膀撞门，木门马上就开始咯吱作响。"
"When the giant found that it was no use keeping it shut, he opened it, saying: ‘I see you are a brave youth.","当巨人发现关着门没有用时，就打开了门，说：“我看你是个勇敢的小伙子。"
"Let there be peace between us.’","我们和平相处吧。”"
"And the prince was glad to make peace, for he had caught a glimpse of the giant’s beautiful daughter, and from that day he often sought the giant’s house.","王子很乐意和平相处，因为他瞥见了巨人的漂亮女儿。从那天起，他就经常到巨人的城堡去。"
"Now the queen led a dull life all alone in the castle, and to amuse herself she paid visits to the robber captain, who flattered her till at last she agreed to marry him.","现在，王后独自在城堡里过着无聊的生活，为了自我消遣，她就到强盗头目那里去。强盗不停取悦她，最后她终于同意嫁给他。"
"But as she was much afraid of her son, she told the robber that the next time the prince went to bathe in the river, he was to steal the sword from its place above the bed, for without it the young man would have no power to punish him for his boldness.","但是，因为她很害怕自己的儿子，所以她让强盗趁着下次王子到河里洗澡的时候，把原来放在床上方的剑偷走。因为没有了剑，王子就没有力量去惩罚强盗的胆大包天。"
"The robber captain thought this good counsel, and the next morning, when the young man went to bathe, he unhooked the sword from its nail and buckled it round his waist.","强盗头目觉得这是个好主意，于是，第二天早上，他趁着小伙子去洗澡，把挂在钉子上的剑取下来，系在他的腰间。"
"On his return to the castle, the prince found the robber waiting for him on the steps, waving the sword above his head, and knowing that some horrible fate was in store, fell on his knees and begged for mercy.","王子回到城堡，发现强盗在楼梯上面等着他，拿着剑在头顶上挥舞着。他知道大祸临头了，就双膝跪地求饶。"
"But he might as well have tried to squeeze blood out of a stone.","但是，他这举动倒还不如试着从石头里榨出血。"
"The robber, indeed, granted him his life, but took out both his eyes, which he thrust into the prince’s hand, saying brutally:","强盗竟然留了他一条命，而是将他的两个眼珠挖了出来，扔到王子手中，残酷地说："
"‘Here, you had better keep them!","“接好，你最好留着！"
"You may find them useful!’","它们可能有用呢！”"
"Weeping, the blind youth felt his way to the giant’s house, and told him all the story.","这个失明的小伙子一边哭泣一边摸索着来到了巨人的城堡，告诉了他整件事情。"
"The giant was full of pity for the poor young man, but inquired anxiously what he had done with the eyes.","巨人很同情这个可怜的小伙子，还焦急地问他将眼珠怎么样了。"
"The prince drew them out of his pocket, and silently handed them to the giant, who washed them well, and then put them back in the prince’s head.","王子从口袋里拿出眼珠，默默地递给巨人，巨人把眼珠清洗干净，然后重新放进王子的头上。"
"For three days he lay in utter darkness; then the light began to come back, till soon he saw as well as ever.","三天来，王子处于一片漆黑之中；然后，渐渐看见亮光，很快，他的双眼就如从前一样看得见了。"
"But though he could not rejoice enough over the recovery of his eyes, he bewailed bitterly the loss of his sword, and that it should have fallen to the lot of his bitter enemy.","但是即便这样，他还不能因为复明而过度欣喜，他为失去的剑痛哭起来。他不共戴天的仇人也应该承受这般痛苦。"
"‘Never mind, my friend,’ said the giant, ‘I will get it back for you.’","“没关系，我的朋友。”巨人说道，“我会帮你把它拿回来的。”"
"And he sent for the monkey who was his head servant.","于是，他召来了他的猴子管家。"
"‘Tell the fox and the squirrel that they are to go with you, and fetch me back the prince’s sword,’ ordered he.","“告诉狐狸和松鼠，让他们和你一起走，将王子的剑给我拿回来。”他命令道。"
"The three servants set out at once, one seated on the back of the others, the ape, who disliked walking, being generally on top.","这三个仆人立即出发了，其中一个坐在其他两个的背上。猴子不喜欢走路，通常都坐在上面。"
"Directly they came to the window of the robber captain’s room, the monkey sprang from the backs of the fox and the squirrel, and climbed in.","他们径直去到了强盗头目房间的窗户边，猴子从狐狸和松鼠的背上跳下来，爬了进去。"
"The room was empty, and the sword hanging from a nail.","房间里没有人，剑就挂在钉子上。"
"He took it down, and buckling it round his waist, as he had seen the prince do, swung himself down again, and mounting on the backs of his two companions, hastened to his master.","他把剑拿下来，系在他的腰上，就像他看过王子那么做一样，然后又纵身一跃，骑上他两个同伴的背，匆忙赶回主人身边。"
"The giant bade him give the sword to the prince, who girded himself with it, and returned with all speed to the castle.","巨人叫他把剑拿给王子。王子佩戴着剑，全速前进，返回城堡。"
"‘Come out, you rascal! come out, you villain!’ cried he, ‘and answer to me for the wrong you have done.","“出来，混蛋！出来，恶棍！”他大声喊道，“你对我做了什么坏事，我要你一一奉还。"
"I will show you who is the master in this house!’","我将让你知道谁才是这城堡的主人！”"
"The noise he made brought the robber into the room.","他的叫喊声把强盗引入了房间。"
"He glanced up to where the sword usually hung, but it was gone; and instinctively he looked at the prince’s hand, where he saw it gleaming brightly.","他抬头看看平常挂剑的地方，剑已经不在。他本能地看向王子的手，剑在那里闪闪发亮。"
"In his turn he fell on his knees to beg for mercy, but it was too late.","轮到他双膝跪地求饶了，但为时已晚。"
"As he had done to the prince, so the prince did to him, and, blinded, he was thrust forth, and fell down a deep hole, where he is to this day.","他怎么对待王子，王子以同样的方式对待他。王子把他戳瞎之后，用力一甩，他掉进了一个深洞，至今仍在那里。"
"His mother the prince sent back to her father, and never would see her again.","王子送他的母亲回到她父亲那里去，永远不想再见到她。"
"After this he returned to the giant, and said to him:","这之后，他回到巨人那里，对巨人说："
"‘My friend, add one more kindness to those you have already heaped on me.","“我的朋友，你已经帮了我这么多，再帮我一次吧。"
"Give me your daughter as my wife.’","让我娶你的女儿为妻。”"
"So they were married, and the wedding feast was so splendid that there was not a kingdom in the world that did not hear of it.","于是，他们结婚了。婚宴办得极其豪华，世界上每个王国都听说了。"
"And the prince never went back to his father’s throne, but lived peacefully with his wife in the forest, where, if they are not dead, they are living still.","王子再没有回去继承他父亲的王位，而是和妻子在森林里平静地生活。如果他们还健在，应该还在那里住着。"
"[From Ungarische Volksmarchen.]","——选自《匈牙利民间童话》"

